
Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Strategic report
Our purpose 1
Business at a glance 2
Chairman’s statement 8
Group Chief Executive’s statement 10
Business model 14
Strategy 16
Market proposition 18
Market review 20
Key performance indicators 22
Business and financial review 24
A responsible business 30
Our key stakeholders 32
Section 172 statement 33
Our people 34
Society and communities 38
The environment  42
Climate-related financial disclosures 44
Key risks and mitigations 50
Governance
Board of Directors and Company Secretary 58
Corporate Governance report 60
Nominations Committee report 67
Audit and Risk Committee report 69
Remuneration report 75
Directors’ report 103
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 106
Financial statements
Consolidated financial statements 107
Schroders plc financial statements 164
Independent auditor’s report 180
Shareholder information
Shareholder information 187
Five-year consolidated financial summary 188
Glossary 189
Our Annual General Meeting (AGM) will be held at 11.30am on 29 April 2021 at 1 London Wall Place, London, EC2Y 5AU.
A glossary of terms used throughout the Annual Report and Accounts, including details of Alternative Performance Measures,  
can be found from page 189.
S
tra
te
g
ic
 re
p
o
rt
ACCELERATING
POSITIVE
CHANGE
Our purpose is to provide excellent 
investment performance to our clients 
through active management.
By serving clients, we serve wider society.  
Channelling capital into sustainable and durable 
businesses accelerates positive change in the world.
Funding the future is a privilege; we use it  
wisely and responsibly.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 1
THE POWER
OF ACTIVE
DECISION-MAKING
The events of 2020 were exceptional. Our response mirrored our response to crises before:  
we held firm and took decisions that best served the interests of our clients, our people,  
our shareholders and other stakeholders. 
Our core belief that investments should be actively managed was rewarded. Fund managers 
who were free to take deliberate decisions in the interest of clients, performed well during last 
year’s periods of market volatility. 
More broadly, we nurture a long-term culture that cares about people and outcomes.  
It creates the right environment for our strategy to flourish.
Performance Over three years Over five years Sustainalytics
72% 81% ESG Risk Rating of
18.8
The conscious and considered decisions of our  of client assets of client assets
fund managers have driven positive outcomes  outperformed outperformed low risk and in the
for clients while a focus on sustainability  their respective their respective top 15% for diversified
underpins our corporate performance. benchmarks  benchmarks  financials sector 
People 98% 94% Reached
33%
of employees proud retention of highly-
The responses in our employee surveys   to be associated with rated employees  target of female
reflect the positive culture on which we   Schroders  representation
build our business. in senior management 
Progress MSCI ESG Rating of 73% £4.3m
AAA
reduction in COe raised through
2
At every level of our organisation, we  putting us in the top emissions per #CollectiveAction,
understand our role in supporting wider  3% of our sector with employee globally including director and
society through an unprecedented crisis. a consistent score for employee donations
more than five years and corporate matching
For more information about how we calculate client investment performance refer to the Glossary on page 189.
2 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
S
tra
te
g
ic
 re
p
o
rt
Strong investment  
outperformance underpins strong 
financial performance 
By building a strong and caring culture, we can achieve the outcomes our clients want. It is this, 
and a commitment to bold and conscious decision-making, that underpin our financial strength 
and powers our growth. The numbers highlight a solid performance during the challenges of 
2020. The key performance indicators (KPIs) used by the Board to track strategic progress can be 
found on pages 22-23.
Financial highlights Key awards in 2020
Net income Basic earnings Assets under
per share before management
exceptional items
£2,179.2m 200.8p £574.4bn Outstanding  ‘Advanced’ recognition 
Investment House  in Morningstar  
– Fund Manager of the  ESG Commitment 
(2019: £2,124.8m) (2019: 201.6p) (2019: £500.2bn) Year Awards Level Assessment
Profit before tax and Basic earnings Net new business 
exceptional items per share
£702.3m 172.4p £42.5bn
Best Investor  SustainExTM first place for 
(2019: £701.2m) (2019: 178.9p) (2019: £43.4bn) Engagement Award   Impact Reporting in the 
at IR Society’s Best  Environmental Finance 
Practice Awards 2020 IMPACT Awards 2020
Profit before tax Total dividend Total equity
per share
£610.5m 114p £4.1bn
Group CIO   Cazenove Capital  
(2019: £624.6m) (2019: 114p) (2019: £3.8bn) Johanna Kyrklund:   wins gold at the  
one of the top 100 most  ESG Investing  
influential women in  Olympics
European finance
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 3
RESILIENCE
THROUGH
DIVERSIFICATION
Our robust business model enabled us to deliver positive results for our stakeholders despite the 
challenging environment.
Business resilience was critical in 2020. Faced with changes that affected almost every aspect  
of life, our diverse business model and strategy met the challenge. Growth was notable in Solutions  
and Wealth Management. By diversifying and focusing on active investment, our business grew stronger.
Assets under management
£574.4bn
By asset class By region By business area
Equities 33% UK 48% Private Assets & Alternatives 8%
Multi-asset 29% Asia Paciﬁc 18% Solutions 33%
Fixed Income 17% Europe, Middle East and Africa 19% Mutual Funds 18%
Private Assets & Alternatives  8% Americas 15% Institutional 28%
Wealth Management 13% Wealth Management 13%
For more information on our strategy see pages 16-17
4 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
S
tra
te
g
ic
 re
p
o
rt
Our robust business model  
proved resilient in challenging times
Our assets under management break down across five business 
areas that align to our strategic priorities.
Private Assets & Alternatives Mutual Funds
Comprises opportunities available in private markets, such as real  Offered through intermediary networks providing retail clients with 
estate, private equity and infrastructure, as well as alternatives access to our investment capabilities
Solutions Institutional
Provides complete solutions and partnerships, including   Investment components made available directly to institutions and 
liability offsets and risk mitigation through sub-advisory mandates
Wealth Management
Wealth Management and financial planning for ultra high-net-worth, 
high-net-worth and affluent individuals and charity clients as well as  
family offices and advisers
AUM by business area, £bn
2018 135 95 44 38 96
2019 144 102 67 44 143
2020 160 104 72 46 192
Private Assets & Alternatives 54% of AUM 
Solutions (2019: 51%)
Mutual Funds
Institutional within our key strategic growth areas of We alth Management,  
Wealth Management Private Assets & Alternatives and Solutions. 
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 5
FOCUSED ON
RESPONSIBILITY
A year as challenging as 2020 offered a test of corporate character and a test of purpose.  
We met the challenge, as a corporate and as a steward of our clients’ capital. We honoured 
our pledge to integrate sustainability measures within our investment processes. We went 
further, building tools to assess the impact, both positive and negative, of the companies we 
invest in. Our corporate initiatives on a range of environmental and social issues accelerated, 
improving the sustainability of our business. Our people, who in the face of adversity 
responded very well, made us proud. Their professionalism maintained standards and 
services, ensuring business stability.
January  February  March  April May  June 
For society For society For our people For our people For shareholders For our people
Signed the UN Global  Started a three-year  Published our fourth  Committed to not  Paid our final dividend  Our LGBTQ+ group 
Compact, the world’s  charity partnership  consecutive Gender  making any Covid-19  for 2019 organised virtual Pride 
largest corporate  with Samaritans in the  Pay Gap report,  related redundancies  celebrations around 
sustainability initiative UK as part of our  demonstrating  or using government  For society the world, raising 
commitment to  continued  support schemes money for Albert 
Raised £4.3 million in 
improving mental  commitment to  Kennedy Trust and 
support of more than 
health and wellbeing equality and inclusion  True Colors United
90 charities
in the workplace
For more details on our gender diversity see page 37
For more information on our key stakeholders and how we engage with them see pages 32-33
6 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
S
tra
te
g
ic
 re
p
o
rt
We act as a responsible  
steward for all our stakeholders 
Our stakeholders
Clients
Our people
Shareholders
Society
July August  September  October  November December
For society For clients For shareholders For our people For society For shareholders
Joined forces with  Cazenove Capital won   Received an ‘Excellent’  Celebrated ‘Inclusion  Ranked in the Social  Calculated our own 
Jamie Murray to  gold in the ESG   investment  Month’ with a series of  Mobility Index for the  SustainExTM score to be 
sponsor the ‘Battle of  Investing Olympics management quality  virtual activities and an  first time, highlighting  +3.1% (compared to 
the Brits’ tennis  rating from Fitch  inclusion survey of  us as an employer  industry average of 
tournament and raise  Ratings for the 16th  employees worldwide doing the most to  -0.3%)
money for NHS  consecutive year,  change how they find, 
Charities Together demonstrating the  For clients recruit and advance  For society
viability of our  talented employees 
Established a regional  Awarded an A- score 
Participated in global  business over the long  from different social 
Centre of Excellence  for our 2020 CDP 
‘Plastic Free July’  term class backgrounds
for Sustainability  submission
movement
(CoES) in Singapore
For clients
Achieved full ESG 
integration1 across our 
managed assets
1. For details see the Glossary on pages 189-192
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 7
Chairman’s statement
PERFORMING
IN CHALLENGING 
TIMES
Schroders’ results in 2020 demonstrated the resilience  Our responsibility
of our business model in the face of some  Our business philosophy is based on the belief that if we deliver for our 
unprecedented challenges.  clients, by offering them investment capabilities which successfully 
protect and enhance their capital, then we will deliver for our 
shareholders, by creating long term shareholder value. We recognise 
Net operating revenue at £2,059.6 million (2019: £2,052.4 million) was in 
that we have a wider range of stakeholders including our employees, 
line with the previous year, as was profit before tax and exceptional 
our counterparties and suppliers, and society as a whole. In 2020 we 
items at £702.3 million (2019: £701.2 million). At a time of volatile 
worked particularly hard to discharge that responsibility to all our 
financial markets and unpredictable investor demand, it was very 
stakeholders.
pleasing to achieve high levels of net new business at £42.5 billion 
(2019: £43.4 billion) and assets under management ended the year at a 
For clients, over 80 per cent of assets under management have 
new high of £574.4 billion (2019: £500.2 billion).
outperformed their benchmarks over five years, and we continued to 
enhance our digital offering which was important as we could not meet 
Dividend
clients face to face during much of 2020. 
Our policy is to provide shareholders with a progressive and sustainable 
dividend, targeting a pay out ratio of around 50 per cent. Last year, at a 
Our Annual General Meeting, held virtually, was open to all 
time when many companies were cutting or cancelling their dividends 
shareholders. 
as a result of the pandemic, the Board maintained both the final 
dividend in relation to 2019 and the interim dividend for 2020. 
We were able to seamlessly switch to remote working because of the 
major investment we have made in technology in recent years and we 
In view of our confidence in the resilience of the business and the 
have not furloughed any staff during the pandemic.
capital position, the Board will recommend to shareholders at the 
Annual General Meeting an unchanged final dividend of 79 pence per 
Our operational platform was resilient and we enjoyed an excellent 
share (2019: 79 pence), taking the full year dividend to 114 pence per 
relationship with regulators throughout the year. 
share (2019: 114 pence), representing a pay out ratio of 57 per cent. The 
final dividend will be paid on 6 May to shareholders on the register at 26 
We engaged actively with the companies in which we invest to see if 
March 2021.
there were particular areas where we could be supportive in a very 
challenging environment. 
8 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
S
tra
te
g
ic
 re
p
o
rt
“Our business philosophy is  
based on the belief that if we  
deliver for our clients, we deliver  
for our shareholders.”
Executive directors waived a proportion of their awards under the long 
term incentive plan and all directors donated part of their salaries or 
fees to charity. Employees as a whole donated £0.9 million to Covid  George Mallinckrodt KBE 1930 – 2021 
related charities globally. The Company itself increased its charitable  George (Gowi) Mallinckrodt dedicated more than half a 
contribution during the year to £4.9 million. century to Schroders. Joining the business in 1954, he 
served on the Board for 31 years, including 11 years as 
The Board Executive Chairman until 1995, before retiring in 2008. 
Matthew Westerman and Claire Fitzalan Howard joined the Board as 
Non-executive directors in March and April 2020 respectively. The Board  Gowi had a profound impact on Schroders over many 
comprises 11 directors, the majority of whom are independent in line  years, covering the Company’s listing, the sale of the 
with our policy, and we now have an almost equal balance between  investment bank and the growth of asset and wealth 
men and women on the Board.  management that is the business today. 
Given the unprecedented circumstances in which we found ourselves,  His passion for Schroders and his commitment to the firm 
the Board met 19 times during the year to receive regular trading  will be remembered by us all.
updates from management in addition to our normal Board agenda. 
Our people
Schroders’ success is built on our reputation and values, our diversified 
business model, our financial strength and above all on the quality, 
professionalism and commitment of our people. This was never more 
so than in 2020 and, although there is still much for us to do as an 
organisation as we confront high levels of disruption and market 
volatility, we could not have delivered these results, served our clients, 
or contributed to wider society in the way we have if our employees had 
not risen to the challenge of these extraordinary times. On behalf of the 
Board as a whole, I would like to thank them for what they have done 
and continue to do for Schroders.
Michael Dobson
Chairman
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 9
Group Chief Executive’s statement
DELIVERING
ACTIVE
PERFORMANCE
The past year has been extraordinary for us all. Managing a business and  I am pleased to say that we continued to meet client requests and 
caring for other people’s money meant addressing at least three crises: a  increased face time with our clients, albeit virtually, throughout the  
financial crisis during March and April, an economic crisis and a social and  year despite the disruption. Digital engagement was key. Fortunately,  
health crisis, which are still with us. we have been investing for some time in the infrastructure to service 
clients digitally and so were able to quickly transition our events platform 
Swift action from governments and central banks helped steady the  to be fully online and deliver regular insight to our global audiences.  
financial system and lent support to global economies. Most importantly,  This included the launch of SchrodersTV to provide regular market  
the development of vaccines has given us hope that an easing of the  views and a vast increase in webinars, allowing clients to speak directly  
health crisis is in sight. Nevertheless, the effects will be long lasting.  to our portfolio managers. As a result, we were ranked first for digital 
Regardless of what comes next, I will continue to marvel at how the  engagement in 2020 across the asset management industry by  
human race responded and adapted in the face of such adversity. Living Group. 
In the face of these challenges, I am delighted with the performance we  Our new business flows remained strong
have delivered and the way our people responded to the challenge.  Overall, total net inflows reached £42.5 billion for the year, or £14.3 billion 
excluding the remaining tranches from the Scottish Widows mandate, 
Delivering strong investment performance
the first tranches of which were transitioned to Schroders during 2019. 
Looking after our clients’ investments during the market turmoil was of  Our joint ventures and associates contributed £12.4 billion of net inflows, 
the utmost importance for us. Our investment culture of research, team  bringing the total for the year of net flows from which we benefitted to 
work and internal communications continued to function well, even when  £54.9 billion. This was a very pleasing result for our business, especially 
most of our portfolio managers were working from home. We remained  when considering the backdrop of the year.
highly proactive and our Data Insights Unit provided innovative research, 
in particular on the developments of Covid-19, with high levels of  Our assets under management reached a record level of £574.4 billion, 
engagement from our investment desks. £663.0 billion including joint ventures and associates. The growth of our 
assets was supported by two acquisitions, positive investment 
This meant our teams did not miss a beat and, as a result, we delivered  performance and strong net inflows.
strong investment performance despite the behaviour of markets. Over 
three and five years, 72% and 81% of client assets have outperformed  Sustainability, ESG and impact investing continue to be on the minds of 
their respective benchmarks. This is a major achievement and highlights  many of our stakeholders and I am particularly proud of the progress we 
the ability of active managers to successfully generate alpha. have made in becoming a leader in this space. We are now rated 
amongst the very best ESG investment firms by MSCI and Sustainalytics. 
Client investment performance* 1 year 3 years 5 years
This is not a new avenue for us, as we have had sustainable investment 
2020 75% 72%  81% expertise for more than 20 years. At the end of 2019, we had integrated 
2019 70% 70% 72% ESG into the financial analysis of just over 50% of our assets and targeted 
full ESG integration1 by the end of 2020. I am pleased that we were able 
*  For more information about how we calculate client investment  to achieve this target despite the challenges of the year. ESG integration 
performance see the Glossary on page 189 provides a broader assessment of the world in which our investee 
companies operate, identifying ESG risks as well as fundamental value 
1. For more information see the Glossary on pages 189-192
10 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
S
tra
te
g
ic
 re
p
o
rt
“We invest in the best interests  
of our clients to accelerate positive 
change in the world.”
opportunities in order to deliver returns for our clients. Our tools are  Our employee engagement survey showed that 98% of our people are 
state of the art and having identified the trend early, we have been   proud to be associated with Schroders and the number of people who 
able to capitalise on client demand. Our innovative work through our  believe that the firm cares about employees’ mental health increased to 
Data Insights Unit is delivering both investment performance and   96%. This is above the normal results within financial services, by 11% 
real differentiation and our newly launched products are gaining   and 23% respectively. Financial services is a people industry, which is why 
good traction.  it is crucial for us to create an environment where our talent can flourish. 
By being an employer of choice we can attract and retain the best people.
Since January 2019, we have been operating the business on a carbon 
neutral basis, which was an important first step. But climate change is  I am proud to say that our resilience at Schroders has been a remarkable 
one of the most pressing issues the world is facing and in December 2020  testament to our people and our business. We took advantage of the 
we became a founding member of the Net Zero Asset Managers  opportunity, extending our position as an industry leader whilst acting 
initiative. The group comprises leading asset managers committed to  with real responsibility towards all our stakeholders, whether they be our 
supporting the goal of net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 or  clients, shareholders, people, suppliers, regulators or wider society. 
sooner, as our industry plays a crucial part in helping efforts to limit 
Responding during a crisis
global warming to 1.5°C. It is through understanding how companies are 
positioned to respond to this climate transition that we can meet our  It was always clear to us that we would not accept money from support 
clients’ investment objectives. To that effect, we committed to reducing  schemes, nor would we furlough any staff. We also committed not to 
our emissions in line with a science-based target not only for our business  make anyone redundant in 2020 due to the impact of Covid-19. As for the 
but also for the investments we manage on behalf of our clients. I am  companies in which we invest, we encouraged them to carefully think 
optimistic about the role finance can play to address the issues we are  about the actions they took to honour their own social contracts.
currently faced with. 
We have built a strong and resilient business based on the right 
2020 was the ultimate test of operational resilience foundations. We have sustained our progressive dividend policy and this 
One of our major achievements was the transition of the remaining  remains incredibly important to us. It means that we are able to 
tranches of Scottish Widows’ assets. This was a landmark mandate  recommend maintaining our final dividend for shareholders at 79 pence 
secured from Lloyds Banking Group (LBG). We on-boarded an additional  per share, representing a payout ratio of 57%.
£29.5 billion with the remaining tranches transitioned mostly remotely 
Our business generated net income before exceptional items of £2,179.2 
without a hitch and on time. I felt that was an incredible show of 
million and achieved a ratio of total costs to net income of 68% whilst 
resilience. Separately, we also successfully completed the transition of our 
pre-exceptional profits were £702.3 million.
transfer agency business to a new provider, a major undertaking.
A fundamental measure of our success is the value we create over the 
We recognised that our working practices would change over the long 
long term for all our stakeholders. This value is a direct result of our ability 
term and a company-wide survey showed a desire for greater flexibility. 
to diversify and further strengthen our business. 
We adopted our flexible working charter in response, setting a new 
industry standard. Our Global Head of Human Resources put it well at  
the time: “in the space of a few months, we have made 20 years’ progress 
in attitudes towards flexible working, and we are going to continue with 
this momentum.”
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 11
Group Chief Executive’s statement continued
£574.4bn  £663.0bn 
Assets under  Assets under 
management management inc. 
Another key strategic initiative is to broaden our private markets 
associates
capabilities, which we pursue through a combination of acquisitions and 
organic expansion. In 2020, we acquired a majority stake in Pamfleet, a 
Hong Kong-based real estate manager. We will continue to look for 
opportunities to add private markets expertise in other areas or where 
we can expand our geographical reach. We also made key hires to build 
£42.5bn  £54.9bn  our capabilities organically, in real estate debt for example, and to 
broaden our dedicated Private Assets sales team.
Net new   Net new business  
It was a good year for our private markets fundraising activities, 
business  inc. associates
particularly our infrastructure, private equity and real estate teams. I view 
this part of our business as a key revenue generator in the future and we 
expect to further expand into the space organically and inorganically.
Another pillar of our strategy is to continue to grow our Asset 
Management business. There are many avenues of growth left for us to 
15%  16% 
explore. These include geographical expansions and new product 
launches, including products with a focus on environmental, social and 
AUM growth  AUM growth year-on- governance factors.
year-on-year  year inc. associates
We now have a comprehensive range of sustainable funds, offering 
compelling long-term investment propositions and strong performance. 
We increased the number of funds within our Global Transformation 
Making strategic progress throughout the year Range of thematic strategies. Three sustainable strategies, Global 
Sustainable Growth, Global Climate Change and Global Energy Transition, 
We continued to execute on our strategy by investing for strong, 
as well as Global Disruption, all passed key AUM milestones, which 
diversified growth, and continued to pivot into higher growth areas of 
should help us gain further traction. We are planning to offer these 
Wealth Management and Private Assets & Alternatives. I have highlighted 
products in suitable vehicles to more clients around the world.
a few key achievements here but you can find a comprehensive view of 
our strategy on pages 16-17.
In 2020, we continued to diversify our business geographically. The US is 
a key opportunity for us and this year our US business reached an 
We also generated strong net inflows over the year, as we continued to 
important local milestone and exceeded assets under management of 
grow our Wealth Management, Private Assets & Alternatives and 
$100 billion (£73.3 billion at year end), as net flows from US clients 
Solutions businesses. These now constitute 54% of our AUM, and 43% of 
reached £11.2 billion. This was supported by our long-standing 
our revenues. 
partnership with Hartford.
To further build our Wealth Management proposition in the UK, we 
We also made progress in China and have been granted permission to 
acquired Sandaire, a London-based multi-family office. This provides us 
obtain a Fund Management Company licence, enabling us to provide 
with an exceptional opportunity to grow Cazenove Capital’s leading 
solutions not only to onshore institutions but also to retail customers. 
position in the UK’s ultra-high-net-worth segment. Our Wealth business 
The Chinese onshore market remains one of the biggest opportunities 
contributed strongly this year with net income increasing by 24% from 
for us and we are working hard to broaden our footprint organically  
the previous year, reaching £382.7 million. This led to a significant 
and through partnerships. There is a clear opportunity for Schroders to 
increase in profit before exceptional items of 26% to £110.5 million. 
bring international investment expertise to the growing onshore asset 
management market.
A proactive response to Covid-19
January February  March  April  May 
For clients For our people For our people For society For society
Rolled out our SustainEx™  Our offices across Asia  Launched weekly podcast  Directors donated 25% of  Our CEO signed an open 
tool as a forward-looking  moved to remote working  to keep our people  salary / fees for three  letter to UK businesses 
measure of the impact of  in response to the Covid-19  connected to the firm and  months and waived 2020  urging pragmatism and 
our investments pandemic, with many other  informed about the latest  LTIP award to Covid-19  offering support in 
offices following suit developments relief efforts response to Covid-19
For clients Collaborated with other 
investors to engage with 
Increased our digital 
FTSE 100 companies on 
engagement with clients in 
employee mental health 
response to Covid-19 
during Covid-19
measures
12 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
S
tra
te
g
ic
 re
p
o
rt
Expanding our partnership network globally of sales. The average financial services business has a SustainEx™ score  
Our joint venture with Lloyds Banking Group was impacted by the  of -0.3%. (For more details on SustainEx™, please see the Glossary on 
lockdown, as referrals slowed due to branch closures. This year was  pages 189-192.)
foundational for Schroders Personal Wealth, as a new leadership team 
was established and organisational improvements were implemented.  If one accepts that not all profits are created equal, active asset  
Over the year, the migration of all of Schroders Personal Wealth clients  managers have an important role to play when allocating capital.  
onto Benchmark Capital’s digital platform was completed, entirely  This will be particularly true in credit markets, where new capital is  
remotely. The future plans for the business give me great confidence. being made available. 
Our existing partnerships with Bank of Communications in China,   I have a strong belief in the powerful role the financial system can  
Axis in India and Nippon Life in Japan all performed well and contributed  play in addressing some of the perceived shortcomings of capitalism. 
positively. Axis continues to grow its market share over   Investment managers play a pivotal role, between asset owners, our 
the year reaching 5.7%. BoCom Schroders has improved its market  clients, and asset creators, the companies and entrepreneurs we invest 
position and is now ranked within the top 15 in China by assets   in. Given the unprecedented amount of government capital invested  
under management. This is due to its strong brand, competitive  in financial markets we should expect to see increased intervention. 
investment performance and successful product launches. There is a suite of new legislation and regulation being implemented on 
ESG factors.
I am especially pleased that our strong partnership with Bank of 
Communications meant that we were their preferred partner to form a  Our impact comes from the careful management of more than half a 
Wealth Management Company joint venture. Once we commence  trillion pounds of our clients’ assets. How we approach this will prove far 
business activities, I foresee significant growth potential by partnering  more influential than how we behave as a corporate entity, although the 
with one of China’s largest banks, a partner we have worked with for  two must be aligned. There is an urgency now to get this right because of 
many years. the compounding effect of early action. The benefit of acting now is so 
much stronger and the downside of not acting is so much greater.
If there is one thing we can learn from the pandemic, it is the role 
financial services can play. Although these are incredibly difficult times,  Many more companies and investors are waking up to this reality; the 
they serve as an important reminder that what we do as a company can  Covid-19 crisis has been a catalyst. Schroders remains committed to 
make a big difference to many people. Last year, I noted that we were  being a leader and we will continue to invest actively in the best interests 
increasingly seeing that clients were no longer interested solely in the  of our clients, into businesses that are well-positioned to maximise 
returns generated by their investments but also in the broader impact  returns and accelerate positive change in the world.
of those investments.
A tribute to our people
I would like to conclude by paying tribute to our people who have gone 
Our understanding of the impact of companies on society and  
above and beyond and kept our organisation going without missing a 
on the planet is growing ever stronger. Accurate measurement of 
beat, delivering under extremely difficult circumstances. I also could not 
impact is critical. Our SustainEx™ analysis uses big data and measures 
be more proud that our people supported and fundraised towards our 
the external impacts of a business by qualifying the economic costs and 
#CollectiveAction campaign, donating £4.3 million to Covid-19 related 
benefits companies create for society. For example, we estimate the 
charities. Keeping our people safe and looking after their wellbeing 
social impact of activities like carbon emissions or access to basic 
continues to be paramount and I am grateful to each and every one for 
services and attribute those impacts to companies systematically 
their continued dedication. 
and quantitatively. 
Peter Harrison
We must be prepared to turn this scrutiny on ourselves. So, for the 
Group Chief Executive
record, Schroders’ own SustainEx™ score is +3.1%, or expressed a 
different way, we create £3.10 of additional social value for every £100 
3 March 2021
June  August  November  December 
For society For our people For clients For society
Participated in the Diversity  Launched our flexible working  BlueOrchard launched a Covid-19  Became a founding member of the 
Project’s ‘Talk About Black’  charter for all employees globally,  support fund, with funding from  Net Zero Asset Manager initiative
campaign and joined other  offering them the opportunity to  Schroders among others, to 
businesses in making a   work in the way most effective   support the microfinance market  For clients
diversity pledge for them through the pandemic
Launched the British Opportunities 
Trust, investing in British 
businesses through the pandemic 
and beyond
Launched the Schroder BSC Social 
Impact Trust, which invests with a 
focus on delivering a positive social 
impact in the UK
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 13
Business model
Providing excellent performance 
through active decision-making
Why we do what we do
To provide excellent investment performance
Our purpose is to provide excellent investment performance  
to our clients through active decision-making. 
To channel capital to support businesses
We actively select companies with sustainable and durable  
business models; those that are evolving to survive and thrive  
in the challenges of the decades ahead.
To help accelerate positive change
We actively select forward-thinking companies, but we also support  
them in their journey to a fully sustainable future.
Creating value for our stakeholders
Delivering returns for clients and shareholders
With a long-term shareholder base we can take a long-term view, in our 
careful decision-making for the company and for clients. 
Taking decisions to benefit society
We know that as stewards of more than £500 billion, we can channel  
money to benefit society. Equally, every decision as a corporate entity is 
mindful of the impact and implication for the world beyond Schroders. 
Taking decisions to benefit our people
We take immense pride in our culture. By promoting flexible working, 
championing diversity and making health and wellbeing a priority, we have 
created the conditions for our people to thrive. This culture is the cornerstone 
of our business. 
Global network of partnerships Our joint venture with BoCom in China 
continues to deliver strong performance. 
Net new business totalled £7.7 billion in 
We have a number of strategic partnerships with key investment 
2020 reaching total AUM of £68.4 billion. 
clients around the world, coupling our investment expertise with 
our clients’ distribution networks, to meet the needs of their 
customers. Our partnership strategy gives us access to new 
distribution opportunities around the world, including some of the 
world’s highest growth markets.
Our joint venture with Axis in India has 
been growing its market share steadily to 
5.7%, ranking 7th in India in terms of 
AUM. The joint venture generated net 
sales of £4.4 billion with AUM reaching 
over £19.3 billion in 2020.
14 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
S
tra
te
g
ic
 re
p
o
rt
How we deliver for clients
By designing innovative products and services
We strive to understand what clients want and apply this to the funds we offer 
and the bespoke solutions we develop. Because of our deep relationships and 
use of technology, we can track and respond to these changing needs. This is 
underpinned by our carefully designed structure based on capabilities, which 
opens up our expertise to every client.
By active and intelligent use of technology 
Technology and data is at the heart of our ceaseless push for investment 
excellence. Our award-winning SustainEx™ impact measurement tool  
is one example.
By motivating and nurturing talented employees
Our business model wouldn’t work if our people were unable to thrive.  
We nurture a culture that allows the individual and the company to make the 
most of their skills. 
What differentiates us
Deep expertise in all asset classes
Our heritage is unique. For more than two centuries we have evolved our 
understanding of markets and therefore the offering we take to clients.  
Today, we comprise five business areas: Private Assets & Alternatives, 
Solutions, Mutual Funds, Institutional and Wealth Management. 
Actively driving the growth of our business
We have grown into areas of exceptional growth potential. We can offer  
access to private markets as equally as public markets. We are a leading 
specialist in impact investing. We look forward and we change.
Global expertise
Our investment capabilities span the globe. But so does our extensive 
distribution infrastructure which brings the best of the Schroders proposition 
to our clients wherever they are.
Our relationship with Hartford in the   Our recently established joint venture with 
US comprises ten sub-advised strategies  Lloyds Banking Group, Schroders Personal 
tailored for the US retail customer.   Wealth now employs over 300 financial 
In 2020, the funds achieved £0.6 billion   advisers and reached £13.8 billion AUM at 
of net inflows with AUM reaching   the end of 2020.
over £7.5 billion. 
Our joint venture with Nissay, the asset 
management arm of Nippon Life, 
delivered benchmark-beating returns for 
clients in 2020. Our business with Nippon 
Life continues to grow. 
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 15
Strategy
Delivering long-term value for our clients
Changes in the investment industry continue to gather pace. Our strategy looks decades ahead; it is carefully 
designed to benefit our clients, as we further diversify our business model towards higher demand areas. 
Our focus
F
O Grow Asset Management
C
U
S We focus on offering products and 
E solutions that are distinctive and of 
D pinpoint relevance to each client.
 
Product innovation is key to future proofing our 
O business. As is geographically expanding our reach so 
we can serve more clients in more jurisdictions. To stay 
N relevant for all our Asset Management clients, we are 
 
increasingly providing complete solutions. Reducing 
G the level of intermediation between investment 
solutions providers and end clients increases client 
R longevity and revenue margins. All these initiatives are 
underpinned by progressively using technology as our 
O competitive advantage.
W
T
Build closer relationships  
H
with end clients
End investors can benefit from the breadth 
of our expanding investment capabilities.
We have the opportunity to leverage our global 
investment expertise to build a leading Wealth 
Management franchise. Wealth Management is  
an attractive business area where trusted adviser 
relationships lead to greater longevity and higher, 
more sustainable margins. Schroders’ long history  
of family ownership, our international institutional 
investment expertise, our Private Assets capability  
and our sustainability research are key strengths in 
building a leading Wealth Management business. 
Expand Private Assets & Alternatives
Build on the surging client demand for  
new alternative sources of return.
Our Private Assets business is built to provide investors 
with a range of portfolio building blocks and 
customised private asset strategies. Our teams have 
over two decades of experience in delivering 
risk-adjusted returns in all private asset classes, 
covering private equity, real estate, private debt and 
infrastructure. We offer access to alternative 
investments via our GAIA (Global Alternative Investor 
Access) platform, which offers Schroders and 
third-party funds. The continued expansion of our 
Private Assets & Alternatives business remains a 
strategic focus for the Group. 
Read more about our distinct capabilities on pages 18-19
16 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
S
tra
te
g
ic
 re
p
o
rt
Our progress in 2020 Growth opportunities
We have made significant progress this year towards our sustainability  We see material upside in our continued product innovation 
ambitions and achieved full ESG integration into the financial analysis   programme which helps maintain our strong position  
of our managed assets. We now have a comprehensive range of  in sustainability. This is one of our key ambitions for our  
sustainable funds with more fund launches in the pipeline next year. In  business, alongside being a strong Solutions provider for  
the US, we have broadened our presence in the institutional space and  our clients globally.
have continued our strong relationship with Hartford. We have made 
progress strengthening our onshore presence in China from a  We expect growth from an increasingly diversified global 
distribution and investment perspective and have now been granted  footprint and see opportunities in the Americas and Asia. 
permission to obtain a licence to serve retail clients as well as 
institutions. We also reached an agreement to establish our second  Developing a range of innovative products that achieve  
joint venture with Bank of Communications. We will jointly be setting up  positive outcomes for clients is essential. We invest seed capital  
a Wealth Management Company. Our Solutions business grew  to support these initiatives.
significantly last year and achieved £43.4 billion of net inflows, mainly 
driven by the transfer of assets under the Scottish Widows mandate.
In the UK, we completed the purchase of Sandaire, adding to   We will continue to grow our presence in the UK wealth market 
our strong multi-family office franchise, and from this we integrated an  across all segments. Schroders Personal Wealth and Benchmark 
additional £2.4 billion of AUM. Cazenove Capital, our UK high-net-  Capital are well-positioned to grow post-lockdown in the affluent 
worth brand, continued its UK regional expansion to leverage   segment. We also see opportunities to build on our acquisition of 
Lloyds Banking Group’s (LBG) business bank relationships and   ThirdRock in Asia and Sandaire in the UK, as well as our Swiss and 
target business owners. It also accelerated its growth organically   Channel Islands businesses, to create a leading family office 
and improved its digital, private assets and sustainable offering.  service in Europe and Asia. 
Benchmark Capital expanded its IFA network, generated record  
profits and successfully migrated Schroders Personal Wealth clients  
on to its platform. Whilst referrals from LBG were impacted by the 
pandemic, Schroders Personal Wealth laid the foundations for future 
growth with new leadership and improved IT infrastructure. 
In recent years we have extended our Private Assets capabilities,   We continue our focus to grow the contribution to the Group’s 
and our offering includes private equity, insurance-linked securities,  revenues of our Private Assets & Alternatives business to 20% 
securitised credit, infrastructure and real estate. All of these asset  over the medium term. That means becoming the private assets 
classes have experienced strong organic growth and contributed  provider of choice for clients by offering innovative products and 
positively to the Group. We have strengthened our management team,  by scaling up the businesses we have acquired. Building on our 
including our real estate team, and completed the purchase of a  strong track record and deep expertise we also see significant 
majority stake in Pamfleet, a Hong-Kong based real estate manager. We  opportunities to further develop our Private Assets capability with 
have also started several organic expansions across the platform  innovative structures and to establish ourselves as a leader in the 
including public-private strategies, Australian private debt, real estate  ESG and impact investing space. 
debt, securitised credit and impact investing. The development of our 
dedicated Private Assets sales team has continued globally and we  
are confident that our clients are benefitting from a specialised 
approach to client service focusing on local requirements and 
supported by a global perspective. 
Read more about how we track our strategic progress on pages 22-23 Read more about how we manage our risks on pages 50-55
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 17
Market proposition
Our distinctive capabilities
We have a long history of adapting our offering to meet the needs of our clients in an 
ever-changing world. As society moves to recover from the effects of a global pandemic 
and a low rate environment continues to impact the search for income, our market 
proposition will allow us to meet the current challenges head on and provide positive 
outcomes for clients across both our asset and wealth management businesses.
A world in recovery
Thematics
At its simplest, successful investing is rooted in understanding  
how the world is changing. And so it is with thematics. The managers 
of these funds specialise in understanding the greatest issues of  
our age; climate change, energy transition and disruptive technology, 
to name a few.
As the world begins to recover from the social, health and economic 
impacts of the Covid-19 pandemic, and as the move towards net zero 
emissions increasingly comes into focus, these strategies are designed to 
offer clients access to some of the most powerful and persistent themes 
transforming our planet and our daily lives.
Our Global Transformation Range aims to uncover and invest in 
companies that are innovating and addressing the imbalances in our 
world, whether between populations and resources or supply and demand 
within individual markets. These funds seek out long-term opportunities 
and provide clients with a global and unconstrained opportunity set, which 
can form part of their core, active portfolios.
Emerging markets
High debt and poor demographics in a number of developed  
market economies pose a challenge to growth. In contrast, emerging 
markets are well-positioned to benefit from rapid industrialisation, 
urbanisation and the adoption of new technologies.
We have operated on the ground in emerging markets for more than  
80 years and are one of the top five global leaders in the asset class. Our 
established capabilities in emerging markets span a range of asset classes.
In equities, the trends in our favour include further growth in demand for 
China-focused funds and increased attention on sustainability. On the fixed 
income side, we are continuing to build on our offering with strategies that 
focus on company bonds, local currency and hard-currency sovereigns.
Sustainability
As an active manager, we have to understand the effect each company has on the world. Not only do clients  
want to understand this impact, but it is essential to considered investment decision-making.
Accurate measurement of impact has therefore become a cornerstone of our approach, made possible by the 
development of our proprietary tools. With them we can understand the true costs of companies’ activities and estimate 
their ‘impact-adjusted profits’. Active management also means active ownership. We encourage the companies we invest in 
to adopt more sustainable business models, increasing their resilience and supporting future growth. In 2020, we 
conducted over 2,150 sustainability-focused engagements across 58 countries. We also voted on 99% of resolutions at over 
6,500 company meetings around the world.
18 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
S
tra
te
g
ic
 re
p
o
rt
New drivers of growth
Private Assets & Alternatives 
In an environment where a great deal of uncertainty and fragility  
in the system remains, private markets and alternative asset classes  
offer growth opportunities that can be difficult to find in more  
traditional markets.
We have expanded our private markets capabilities significantly in  
recent years, both organically and via bolt-on acquisitions. We now offer 
a broad range of private assets strategies and have launched a number 
of funds in response to increasing client demand in this area.
On the alternatives side, our GAIA platform is an example of industry 
innovation and allows us to move quickly with fewer resources by 
leveraging external managers in addition to our own investment  
teams. With Helix at its core, we will continue to develop the platform’s 
offering in response to client demand.
Low rate environment
Income
The current low interest rate environment is not a new 
phenomenon, short-term rates have been low since the global 
financial crisis more than a decade ago. The Covid-19 pandemic has 
pushed them even lower, as central banks make every effort  
to support economic activity.
Investors are facing a considerable challenge in achieving sustainable 
income in this environment and are looking for income-generating funds 
to help address the issue. We offer one of the most comprehensive 
ranges of income strategies in the market, with products across all asset 
classes, yields and risk/liquidity levels.
Our existing, well-developed credit franchise also provides ample 
opportunity for meeting this demand on the fixed income side and 
extending our offering into newer areas, particularly in Asia.
ImpactIQ A sustainability lens on our investments
SustainExTM ThemEx
Quantifies the hidden environmental and  Demonstrates alignment with the UN 
social costs and benefits created by  Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and 
companies, providing a forward-looking  allows us to create bespoke solutions for 
measure of their impact. This allows investors  clients, which focus on the impact goals that 
to better understand the risks that companies  matter most to them.
could face in the future.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 19
Market review
A year of unexpected change
It has been a remarkable year and one that will not easily be forgotten, 
FAANG performance 2020 
however much we might wish it to be. Life as we know it was turned 
upside down by the Covid-19 virus towards the end of 2019. Countries 
locked down as unprecedented measures were brought in to contain  200%
the spread of the virus. Borders were closed, industrial activity was 
largely paused, social gatherings were banned and people were 
ordered to work from home where they could. 165%
Extreme turbulence hit financial markets as investors became spooked 
by the pandemic’s implications. 
130%
MSCI World (Total return)
95%
12000
60%
Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
10500
S&P 500 Netﬂix
Alphabet Apple
9000 Facebook Amazon
*  Source: Schroders. Refinitiv, January 2021
7500
The famous FAANG quintet of stocks (Facebook, Apple, Amazon, Netflix 
and Google) continued to power ahead, not to mention the seemingly 
6000 inexorable performance of communications technology enablers like 
Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
Zoom. 
MSCI World U$ – Total Return Index
Zoom performance 2020 
*  Source: Schroders. Refinitiv, January 2021
1000%
Even the perceived safe havens of bonds and gold suffered as investors 
feared for the stability of the whole financial market system.
Nearly as rapidly as they crashed, markets recovered, buoyed by the  750%
aggressive and unparalleled levels of central bank- and government-
enacted stimulus measures. This included very significant levels of 
government spending to prop up economies, but also lowering of  500%
interest rates around most of the world. 
The developed world, where interest rates were already low to start off  250%
with, saw rates reach zero in many instances. This new era of #theZero, 
as Schroders has termed it, will have widespread consequences for 
economies and stock markets around the world.
0%
Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
We believe it will change the investment landscape meaningfully. In a 
world where bonds offer zero income, traditional asset allocation may  Zoom 
not be able to deliver the benefits it has historically done.
*  Source: Schroders. Refinitiv, January 2021
Homebody economy
Another feature of the historical market crash and subsequent recovery  Other areas of the market, some of them unexpected, took off too. Pet 
was how those stocks related to the ‘homebody economy’ flourished.  ownership, for example, boomed thanks to the likely new normal of 
With everyone confined to the four walls of their homes, it became the  owners working from home a few times a week. Many people took 
norm for people to conduct their lives online to a greater extent than  advantage of the time at home to renovate and refurbish, to the benefit 
ever before. Existing trends like online shopping and remote working  of businesses such as home builders and DIY retail.
arrangements were accelerated, making years of progress in a few 
The role of the stock market
weeks. Companies providing internet infrastructure, support and 
entertainment naturally thrived. But many other companies did not find themselves in such a privileged 
position. Many had to close their doors permanently as global activity 
shut down and revenues dried up across the world, resulting in millions 
of job losses. Various governments made large sums of debt available 
to struggling companies through loan programmes and the deferral of 
certain tax payments, for example. This undoubtedly saved some 
businesses and jobs but more needed to be done given the scale of 
the crisis. 
20 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
S
tra
te
g
ic
 re
p
o
rt
Equity markets stepped up to the plate. All over the world they provided 
Dollar vs basket of currencies
funding to ailing corporates: an astonishing $3.6 trillion (The Economist, 
9 December 2020) was raised over the year by non-financial firms. 
Record levels of corporate debt and secondary stock sales were issued. 105
Our analysis shows £31 billion was raised by more than 500 companies 
on the London Stock Exchange during 2020 (source: Bloomberg). This  100
was more than in any year since companies scrambled to repair their 
balance sheets during the 2008-09 crisis.
95
The China story
China, once the epicentre of the virus, staged a remarkable recovery in 
2020, both from an economic and a financial markets perspective. Its 
90
economy posted 2.3% GDP growth over 2020, the only major economy 
to expand over the year (source: National Bureau of Statistics of China). 
The economic recovery spurred equity markets onto new heights – the 
value of the stock market breached the $10 trillion mark in October for  85 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
the first time since 2015 (Bloomberg, October 2020).
US Dollar 
The rise of S in ESG
Companies did not only experience financial stresses and strains as a 
result of Covid-19. They also came under pressure from investors to 
*  Source: Schroders. Refinitiv, January 2021.
demonstrate the strength of their social contract with stakeholders 
(employees, suppliers and customers). Since then we have seen  Looking ahead
numerous firms pay more attention to the interests of other 
Inflation remains, as ever, a key consideration for markets. Some fear 
stakeholders, beyond just shareholders. All over the world, executives 
that central banks may permit higher inflation to assist indebted 
and board members took pay cuts, albeit temporary, in response to the 
companies and governments. However, the pandemic has had such an 
pandemic. While executive pay cuts might not do much to bolster a 
impact on demand that we see little inflationary pressure on a 
company’s finances, they send a message of solidarity to employees 
three-year view.
and investors. Especially when companies are cutting dividends, 
investors prefer to see management ‘sharing the pain’. In short, this 
We think low interest rates are going to dominate investor sentiment. 
crisis has actually increased the visibility and perceived importance of 
Income is going to become increasingly difficult to find with interest 
sustainable business practices.
rates at such lows and investors are going to have to turn to places  
they might have overlooked in the past, in order to achieve growth.  
US elections
We believe this will provide further impetus to the increased demand 
The US presidential election also brought the topic of sustainability front 
we saw in 2020 for private assets.
and centre. The uncertainty about who would win was a theme that 
dominated markets and investor sentiment, and contributed to 
This environment of low rates will also likely put pressure on the US 
elevated market volatility in the run-up to November’s ballot. A ‘Biden 
dollar, which has already seen a 7% decline compared to a basket of 
bounce’ in the stock markets followed the announcement of the 
peers over the course of 2020.
Democratic Party’s popular and electoral college vote victory over 
incumbent Donald Trump.
The use of big data will empower investors to be more specific about 
their impact. We also foresee growing demand from investors to back 
The ESG implications of Biden’s presidency could be profound. We will 
particular themes, seeking positive impact and sustainable and 
likely see a change in US climate policy as Biden re-commits the country 
robust returns. 
to the Paris Agreement and to a net zero emissions reduction target by 
2050. Beyond the climate agenda, a Biden victory could have significant 
Investors are also likely to become increasingly concerned with the 
implications on consumer, healthcare and tech companies as Biden 
measurement of the impact their investments are having on society 
seeks to strengthen labour protection, improve access and affordability 
and the environment.
in healthcare and regulate big tech. It is hoped that Biden’s presidency 
will also help thaw relations between the US and China, which became 
We expect strong interest in the biggest themes of our age – climate 
increasingly frosty during Trump’s tenure.
change, energy transition, healthcare advancements and accelerating 
urbanisation. This shift could be a distinguishing characteristic for 
Brexit impact
markets in 2021 and beyond.
The uncertainty contributed to the UK stock market’s relatively weak 
performance over the year. In currency markets the pound made gains 
against the dollar throughout the year, with the strongest rallies in the 
weeks before the UK parliament’s approval of a post-Brexit trade deal.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 21
Key performance indicators
Tracking our strategic progress
To ensure that we are delivering against our strategy, we track progress against a number  
of key performance indicators.
Client investment performance (%) Net new business (£bn)
72% £42.5bn
We target at least 60% of our AUM to outperform its stated comparator  We seek to generate positive net new business across the Group.
over rolling three-year periods.
2016 74 2016 1.1
2017 74 2017 9.6
2018 74 2018 (9.5)
20191 70 2019 43.4
2020 72 2020 42.5
Investment performance over a three-year period remained strong in  Overall, total net inflows reached £42.5 billion for the year, or £14.3 
2020, with 72% of assets outperforming their stated comparator. We  billion excluding the remaining tranches from the Scottish Widows 
have been above this target for each of the past five years. mandate. 
Five-year investment outperformance was 81% and the   Overall, Solutions net new business reached £43.4 billion which was 
one-year figure was 75%. also supported by a mandate win in the US in the first half of the year. 
Wealth Management contributed £1.7 billion of net flows, while our 
Private Assets & Alternatives business contributed £0.5 billion. 
More details on our performance reporting can be found  
on pages 189.
Assets under management (£bn) Retention of key talent (%)
£574.4bn 94%
We aim to grow AUM over time in excess of market growth through  Developing and retaining talented people is key to our ongoing success. 
positive investment outperformance and net new business. As a  We actively monitor our retention of those employees who have been 
sterling denominated reporter, currency movements may also  rated as either outstanding or exceed expectations in their annual 
impact asset levels. performance review.
2016 386.0 2016 95
2017 435.7 2017 94
2018 407.2 2018 94
2019 500.2 2019 94
2020 574.4 2020  94
AUM increased by 15% in 2020 to £574.4 billion. Our retention of highly-rated employees has consistently been more 
than 90%. This represents a committed and engaged workforce,  
Rising markets and currency movements increased AUM by   which is aligned with Schroders’ values.
£28.4 billion.
We generated net new business of £42.5 billion and acquisitions  
added £3.3 billion of AUM.
1. Restated to include additional Solutions and Wealth Management assets
22 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
S
tra
te
g
ic
 re
p
o
rt
Basic earnings per share* (p) Ratio of total costs to net income* (%)
200.8p 68%
We aim to grow earnings per share consistently, recognising the  We target a 65% ratio of total costs to net income through the market 
potential impact of market volatility on results in the short term. cycle, recognising that in weaker markets the ratio may be higher than 
our long-term target.
2016 186.3 2016 64
2017 226.9 2017 61
2018 215.8 2018 64
2019 201.6 2019 67
2020 200.8 2020 68
In 2020, basic earnings per share before exceptional items was  In 2020, our ratio of total costs to net income was 68%. This ratio 
200.8 pence. increased as we continued to strategically invest in the  
future growth of the business.
Net income* (£m) Dividend per share (p)
£2,179.2m 114p
Net income comprises net operating revenue, which is primarily  Our policy is to provide shareholders with a progressive and  
revenues generated from AUM less cost of sales, net gains on financial  sustainable dividend, targeting a payout ratio of around 50%.  
instruments, share of profit of associates and joint ventures, and other  For more information, see page 24.
income. We aim to grow net income over time.
2016 1,793.1 2016 93
2017 2,068.9 2017 113
2018 2,123.9 2018 114
2019 2,124.8 2019 114
2020 2,179.2 2020 114
Net income increased £54.4 million from 2019 to £2,179.2 million.  The Board is recommending a final dividend of 79 pence per share, 
Changes in business mix offset higher average AUM, resulting in net  bringing the total dividend for the year to 114 pence per share. This 
operating revenue increasing marginally from £2,052.4 million in 2019  represents a payout ratio of 57%.
to £2,059.6 million in 2020. Net income was supported by an increased 
contribution from associates and joint ventures and net gains on 
financial instruments.
*  Before exceptional items
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 23
Business and financial review
RESILIENCE
IN A CHANGING
WORLD
The events of 2020 were quite extraordinary. The global pandemic and  Across our Asset Management segment we generated £40.8 billion  
ongoing political uncertainty impacted investor sentiment and led to  of net new business, with particularly strong growth in our Solutions 
market volatility. Against this backdrop, I am very pleased with not only  business. These developments, together with positive investment 
the results we have delivered, but also the progress we have made in  returns, enabled us to grow our Asset Management AUM to  
enhancing our operational capabilities and in making sure we continue  £502.4 billion (2019: £433.5 billion).
to do the right thing for society. 
In Wealth Management, the acquisition of Sandaire, which completed 
Our diversified business model has again shown its benefits as we  late in the year, further strengthened our strong family office franchise 
delivered pre-exceptional profit before tax of £702.3 million, a small  and added to our capabilities in the UK ultra-high-net-worth sector.  
increase on 2019 (2019: £701.2 million). Profit after tax and exceptional  We also made progress in expanding our presence in Singapore and 
items decreased slightly to £486.0 million (2019: £495.7 million),  across the various regions in the UK as we made a number of key hires 
principally due to higher acquisition related costs and other one-off  in both markets. Our joint venture with Lloyds Banking Group plc, 
items in our associates and joint ventures. Given this performance   Schroders Personal Wealth (SPW), which we launched in the second  
the Board is recommending a final dividend of 79 pence per share  half of 2019, made positive progress despite the challenging market 
(2019: 79 pence per share). This means a total dividend for the year   environment. Across our Wealth Management segment we generated 
of 114 pence per share (2019: 114 pence per share) and represents   £1.7 billion of net new business as we grew our AUM to £72.0 billion 
a payout ratio of 57% (2019: 57%). (2019: £66.7 billion). 
Resilient results in exceptional times These strategic developments helped us to grow our total AUM to  
We have previously set out three strategic areas, which we believe   a record high of £574.4 billion (2019: £500.2 billion), with total net  
will drive our future growth: the continued advancement of our global  new business of £42.5 billion. Our associates and joint ventures had a 
Asset Management business; the development of our Private Assets   successful year and at 31 December, managed £88.6 billion of AUM, 
& Alternatives capabilities; and the expansion of our Wealth  which is not currently included as part of our Group AUM. In 2020  
Management business through closer relationships with end clients.  these businesses generated £12.4 billion of additional net new 
Although 2020 was not without its obstacles, we continued   business. Management fees were down slightly at £2,327.2 million 
to make good progress in each of these areas.  (2019: £2,380.2 million). This was driven by a shift in the mix of our 
business as a result of the growth in our Solutions business and the 
In Asset Management, our focus on delivering investment  impact of markets. We delivered strong investment performance for 
outperformance, combined with ongoing innovation and product  our clients, resulting in £95.7 million of performance fees and net 
development, has enabled us to continue to attract positive net new  carried interest, up from £73.1 million in 2019. This growth was partly 
business despite the market uncertainty.  offset by lower real estate transactional income, which was impacted by 
reduced deal volumes as a result of the global pandemic, and lower net 
We have also continued to build out our Private Assets & Alternatives  banking interest in Wealth Management due to the low interest rate 
capabilities, most notably through the purchase of a majority stake   environment. Overall, net operating revenue was up slightly at 
in a Hong Kong based real estate manager, Pamfleet, which extends  £2,059.6 million (2019: £2,052.4 million).
our geographical real estate capabilities into Asia. This acquisition 
contributed £0.6 billion of additional AUM, which helped increase  
our Private Assets & Alternatives AUM to £46.1 billion. 
24 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
S
tra
te
g
ic
 re
p
o
rt
“Our diversified business model  
has enabled us to deliver a robust  
set of results, as we continue  
to make progress against our 
strategic objectives.”
As the Group Chief Executive’s statement sets out, our global  Changing working habits, which have been accelerated by the 
partnership network is a key component of our growth plans, and our  pandemic, have enabled us to review our office capacity needs.  
interests in joint ventures and associates, particularly our long-standing  As a result, we took the decision to reduce our office space in London 
venture with Bank of Communications in China, showed strong returns  and Hong Kong. The costs associated with the changes to our property 
in 2020. As a result, income from joint ventures and associates  estate amounted to £16.3 million and have been presented as 
increased to £64.1 million (2019: £30.5 million). Our proprietary  exceptional items within our Group segment. Other exceptional items 
investments, which comprise seed capital, co-investments and our  are largely acquisition related, including the amortisation of intangible 
investment capital portfolio also performed well, generating gains   assets and one-off costs relating to the transformation and set up of 
of £42.5 million (2019: £23.5 million), notwithstanding the fact that  SPW which is part of our Wealth Management segment. In total, 
they are managed on a market neutral basis. These returns are  exceptional items were £91.8 million (2019: £76.6 million), which meant 
included within net gains on financial instruments and other income  a profit before tax of £610.5 million, down 2% on 2019. Profit after tax 
and contributed to net income increasing to £2,179.2 million   was £486.0 million (2019: £495.7 million).
(2019: £2,124.8 million).
Advancing our operational capabilities
The increase in net income was largely offset by higher costs.   The Group Chief Executive’s statement refers to our operational 
We increased our Total compensation ratio from 44% to 45%.  resilience, in particular highlighting our successful onboarding of assets 
Non-compensation costs were slightly higher at £502.2 million   under the Scottish Widows’ mandate which completed during the first 
(2019: £496.3 million), largely due to the impact of acquisitions, and   UK lockdown. This was achieved as we benefited from the investments 
as a result of the strategic investments we have been making in our  we have made in technology and infrastructure. These enabled us to 
technology and infrastructure. The cost increases were dampened by  make the switch to remote working efficiently across our global 
reductions in travel due to the impact of the global pandemic and other  network with no impact on our ability to deliver for our clients.
cost savings. This resulted in a total profit before tax and exceptional 
items of £702.3 million (2019: £701.2 million). The year also saw us advance our operational capabilities in a number 
of other ways. We relocated operational processes from Luxembourg 
The investments we are making in the business are an important part  and London to our site in Horsham, West Sussex, enhancing our 
of our growth strategy. They include strategic investments in China,  efficiency and effectiveness. In the UK, we also changed our transfer 
where we have recently announced two new businesses. The first is an  agency provider to HSBC. This provides us with a competitive and 
investment in a Wealth Management Company, a joint venture with the  innovative service in a market that had previously been dominated by a 
Bank of Communications. The second is a wholly owned Fund  single player. Elsewhere, in Singapore, we significantly expanded our 
Management Company. Both provide a significant opportunity for us to  investment operations team in response to the increasing needs of our 
bring more of our investment capability to the region by growing our  growing Asian business.
onshore presence. 
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 25
Business and financial review continued
Contributing to society example, and we are committed to planning for, and executing on,  
Covid-19 has had an undeniably disruptive impact on society and we  the transition towards net zero emissions within our own operations. 
recognise that we have a responsibility not only to our clients and  We continue to target significant reductions in our greenhouse gas 
shareholders but also to wider society and the communities in which  emissions, and in 2020 our COe emissions per employee reduced by 
2
we operate. Our diversified business model and operational resilience  73% to 1.21 tonnes (2019: 4.49 tonnes). Notwithstanding the reductions 
meant that we were well placed to manage the challenges that it posed. that arose as a result of Covid-19, particularly from less travel, we made 
good progress in line with our plans. For more information see page 42. 
Recognising the important role we play, we have actively supported our 
suppliers, people and wider society. We were particularly mindful of the  Reflecting our ambition to demonstrate leading practice when it comes 
impact lower employee presence in our offices would have on our  to minimising the negative impact of our business on the environment, 
facilities team and service providers. We maintained all salaries, paying  we have taken a number of other significant steps in 2020. We became 
everyone in full throughout the year. We did not furlough any  a founding member of the Net Zero Asset Managers initiative and 
employees or make any redundancies as a result of the pandemic. Nor  committed to setting a science-based emissions target by the end of 
did we seek or accept any government support. 2021. As part of these commitments, we will be publishing our climate 
action plan later this year. This plan will outline how we intend to 
We also increased our wider support for charities and our total  transition towards net zero emissions across our own operations and 
contribution to charities during the year was £4.9 million. A key element  wider value chain by 2050 or sooner, as well as highlighting interim 
of this was the Group’s contributions to our #CollectiveAction campaign,  targets in this area.
assisting those most impacted by Covid-19, as outlined on page 41. 
This aligns with our increased focus on climate change within our 
As an active asset manager, investing across public and private  broader corporate responsibility (CR) strategy, which focuses on our 
markets, we have a fundamental role to play in encouraging the  impact on people and the planet. In particular, we are looking at how 
companies that we invest in to recognise their environmental and social  our activities as a business can play a role in reducing inequalities and 
responsibilities. This includes encouraging them to address the climate  tackling climate change. More information on our approach to CR can 
impact of their businesses. It is equally important that we lead by  be found from page 30. 
Corporate Responsibility Strategy
People Planet
Reducing inequality Tackling climate change
Focusing on inclusion, wellbeing and human rights Focusing on science-based targets and a net zero emissions pathway
Delivered by
Investment solutions Tools and measurement Operations and supply chain
All underpinned by
Charitable giving, fundraising and 
Our culture and values Policies and standards Partnerships
volunteering
Business areas investment expertise to differentiate ourselves and help meet the 
In 2019, we presented our AUM across our five business areas of  increasing demand from clients for the management of balance 
Private Assets & Alternatives, Solutions, Mutual Funds, Institutional and  sheet risk. 
Wealth Management for the first time. This presentation better aligns 
with the way we manage our business and the shift in client demands. Providing high quality active management to Institutional clients 
remains a core part of our business. Whilst our Mutual Funds business 
Both Private Assets & Alternatives and Wealth Management are  faces wider market pressures, it remains an important component of 
explicitly linked to two of our strategic objectives. The three other areas  our overall Asset Management segment. We continue to innovate in 
are a key part of our strategy to grow Asset Management. Solutions in  this area, for example through the development of our Global 
particular is a key area of growth where we are able to use our active  Transformation Range of funds. 
26 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
S
tra
te
g
ic
 re
p
o
rt
Movements in AUM
AUM
Total 
Private Assets  Mutual  Asset  Wealth Group Including 
£bn & Alternatives Solutions Funds Institutional Management Management Total Associates Associates
1 January 2020 44.2 142.8 102.4 144.1 433.5 66.7 500.2 69.2  569.4 
Gross inflows 7.7 68.8 39.0 24.4 139.9 8.6 148.5 173.4  321.9 
Gross outflows (7.2) (25.4) (42.1) (24.4) (99.1) (6.9) (106.0) (161.0) (267.0)
Net flows 0.5 43.4 (3.1) – 40.8 1.7 42.5 12.4  54.9 
Acquisitions  0.6 – – – 0.6 2.7 3.3 – 3.3 
Investment returns1 0.8 4.9 4.9 15.7 26.3 2.1 28.4 7.0  35.4 
Transfers – 1.2 – – 1.2 (1.2) – – –
31 December 2020 46.1 192.3 104.2 159.8 502.4 72.0 574.4 88.6  663.0 
1. Includes currency movements which increased AUM by around £5.8 billion. 
The following commentary provides a more detailed review of our  Our Mutual Funds business was impacted by the risk-off environment 
financial results and the development of our AUM, which is a key driver  at the start of the year, with net outflows of £4.8 billion in the first six 
of our performance. months. This sentiment changed in the second half of the year, as we 
generated net inflows of £1.7 billion. 
Assets under management
Our AUM increased by £74.2 billion, or 15%, to close 2020 at a record  In the Wealth Management segment, we achieved £1.7 billion of net 
high of £574.4 billion (2019: £500.2 billion).  new business in 2020. Net inflows of £1.2 billion from our Schroders 
Wealth business and £0.7 billion through Benchmark Capital were 
In 2020, we generated £42.5 billion of net inflows from clients (2019:  partially offset by £0.2 billion of outflows from SPW. The performance of 
£43.4 billion), including £28.2 billion of assets from the Scottish Widows  SPW was impacted by Covid-19 related Lloyds branch closures which 
mandate into our Solutions business. Acquisitions added £3.3 billion of  led to lower client referrals.
assets across Private Assets & Alternatives and Wealth Management 
and we generated investment returns, after foreign exchange, of  Asset Management results
£28.4 billion for our clients. Asset Management net income was slightly higher than the prior year 
at £1,786.9 million (2019: £1,781.2 million), although net operating 
The composition of our AUM and the nature of the movements is an  revenue decreased 1% to £1,747.2 million (2019: £1,763.1 million). This 
important driver of our results. The impact of the risk-off environment  decrease was principally due to lower revenue margins as the mix of 
at the start of the year and the growth in our Solutions business  business was impacted by markets and the strong flows we generated 
impacted the mix of our AUM by increasing the weighting of lower  in our Solutions business. Despite the challenging market conditions, 
margin products. particularly in the first half of the year, our investment performance was 
strong with 72% of assets outperforming over three years. As a result, 
In the Asset Management segment, AUM increased by £68.9 billion, or  performance fees increased to £85.8 million (2019: £42.9 million).  
16%, to £502.4 billion at 31 December 2020 (2019: £433.5 billion). We  We also benefited from £8.8 million of net carried interest (2019: 
generated £40.8 billion of net new business from clients in 2020 and the  £29.3 million) despite Covid-19 impacting private asset transactions. 
acquisition of a majority stake in Pamfleet contributed £0.6 billion. Real estate transaction fees were particularly impacted, reducing  
by £16.0 million to £3.4 million as the number of new property 
Within Private Assets & Alternatives, we saw encouraging demand in  transactions fell.
our Private Assets business with net inflows of £1.7 billion principally 
across real estate, infrastructure finance and private equity. These  As a result, Private Assets & Alternatives net operating revenue reduced 
strong flows were partially offset by outflows from our liquid  by £6.9 million to £293.3 million (2019: £300.2 million). The reduction in 
alternatives range, which was more impacted by the market  performance related fees and transaction fees more than offset the 
environment and experienced net outflows of £1.2 billion.  acquisition of BlueOrchard which completed in October 2019 and 
contributed £30.2 million of additional revenues in 2020. The net 
Our Solutions business generated £43.4 billion of net inflows, with  operating revenue margin, excluding performance and transaction 
several notable wins in addition to the latest tranche of the Scottish  related fees, was 62 basis points (2019: 63 basis points).
Widows mandate. Solutions strategies are designed to provide clients 
with an outcome over the life of the product and whilst they attract  Net operating revenue in our Solutions business increased 12%  
lower fee margins than more traditional products, they typically have  to £253.0 million (2019: £226.1 million) reflecting the strong net new 
greater longevity. business we generated. The net operating revenue margin fell in  
line with our expectations to 15 basis points (2019: 21 basis points).  
Our Institutional AUM grew 11%, driven by £15.7 billion of investment  This decrease reflects the impact of lower fee rates on more  
returns we generated for our clients, net of currency movements. We  recent mandates that are individually significant in size.
also saw an increase in client demand in this business area as gross 
inflows increased by £7.7 billion. 
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 27
Business and financial review continued
In our Mutual Funds business, net operating revenue decreased by 7%  Group segment results
to £686.4 million (2019: £734.8 million), although an increase in  The Group segment comprises central management costs and returns 
performance fees of £7.4 million partly offset the impact of lower  on investment and seed capital. Net income for the Group segment 
average AUM. Excluding performance fees, the net operating revenue  increased by £13.2 million to £58.1 million (2019: £44.9 million). Gains 
margin fell to 71 basis points (2019: 73 basis points) due to changes in  on financial instruments increased by £29.3 million, including positive 
mix as a result of the risk-off environment at the start of the year.  returns on seed capital. This more than offset lower interest income 
and lower income from associates, following the sale of our interest in 
Performance fees in our Institutional business were also strong, up  RWC earlier in the year. Costs in the Group segment increased slightly 
£34.8 million to £74.2 million (2019: £39.4 million). This increase more  to £39.6 million (2019: £38.1 million). This resulted in a profit before tax 
than offset the impact of lower management fees and resulted in net  and exceptional items of £18.5 million (2019: £6.8 million). In 2020, we 
operating revenue of £514.5 million (2019: £502.0 million). The net  incurred exceptional items of £16.3 million (2019: £0.6 million). These 
operating revenue margin excluding performance fees fell to 31 basis  expenses predominantly comprise real estate related costs, following 
points (2019: 32 basis points). our decision to reduce office space reflecting increased flexible working 
habits. After exceptional items, there was a profit before tax of £2.2 
The decrease in overall Asset Management net operating revenue was  million (2019: £6.2 million).
partly offset by an increase in our share of profits from associates and 
joint ventures, which more than doubled to £49.5 million (2019: £23.5  Financial strength and liquidity
million), with continued strong returns from our venture with Bank of  The Group’s net assets increased by £238.4 million during 2020 to 
Communications in China. £4,085.9 million (2019: £3,847.5 million).
Operating expenses before exceptional items increased to   The different forms of business that we conduct affect our total assets 
£1,213.6 million (2019: £1,174.3 million) as the scale of our   and liquidity. Certain assets managed on behalf of investors are 
business grew, including through acquisitions. As a result, profit  recognised in the Consolidated statement of financial position, while 
before tax and exceptional items decreased by 6% to £573.3 million  others are not. The following table sets out how these assets are broken 
(2019: £606.9 million).  down between on-balance sheet assets and others that form part of 
our total AUM. 
Exceptional items reduced to £29.8 million (2019: £41.4 million), these 
costs principally relate to acquisitions, including amortisation of  Not recorded  
in the 
acquired intangible assets. After exceptional items, profit before tax  Statement of   Statement of  
decreased to £543.5 million (2019: £565.5 million). financial  financial 
position position Total
£bn £bn £bn
Wealth Management results
Life Company 12.1 – 12.1
Wealth Management net income increased by 24% to £382.7 million 
Other Asset Management – 490.3 490.3
(2019: £309.6 million), driven by growth in management fees, which 
increased by £79.2 million to £332.4 million (2019: £253.2 million).   Total Asset Management 12.1 490.3 502.4
This was mainly a result of the full year impact of SPW, which was  Wealth Management 3.6 68.4 72.0
acquired in October 2019 and contributed an increase in management 
Total AUM 15.7 558.7 574.4
fees of £49.9 million in 2020. The Wealth Management segment 
Investment capital 0.4
includes our proportional share of the income and expenses of SPW on 
an individual account line basis. The Consolidated income statement  Seed and co-investment 
includes our share of the post-tax profits of SPW within Share of profit  capital 0.6
of associates and joint ventures. A reconciliation between the two  Other assets 5.0
different presentations is shown in the segmental note on page 112. Total Group assets excluding 
clients’ investments 6.0
The remaining increase in management fees was principally due to a 
Total Group assets 21.7
£15.7 million increase in Benchmark Capital due in part to the migration 
of SPW assets on to the Benchmark Capital platform. Net banking 
Within Asset Management, assets that are managed for clients are not 
interest decreased to £14.1 million (2019: £24.0 million) as a result of the 
generally owned by the Group and are not recorded in the Consolidated 
low interest rate environment. The net operating revenue margin 
statement of financial position. However, certain clients invest through 
excluding performance fees, fell from 59 basis points to 56 basis points 
life insurance policies that are managed by the Life Company. The 
due to lower net interest margins and changes in asset mix. Other 
assets backing these policies are owned by the Life Company and are 
income increased £8.3 million to £15.8 million (2019: £7.5 million), 
included in the Consolidated statement of financial position along with 
primarily due to an increased contribution from SPW of £7.5 million. 
a matching policyholder liability.
Operating expenses before exceptional items were £272.2 million, up 
Wealth Management principally provides investment management, 
23% (2019: £222.1 million), including the proportional share of SPW 
wealth planning and financial advice, platform services and banking 
costs. Profit before tax and exceptional items increased 26% to £110.5 
services. Those subsidiaries that provide banking services are legally 
million (2019: £87.5 million). Exceptional items within Wealth 
responsible for the banking assets and liabilities. They are therefore 
Management increased £11.1 million to £45.7 million mainly due to 
included in the Consolidated statement of financial position. The assets 
implementation and other costs in relation to the transformation and 
are managed to earn a net interest margin with consideration of the 
set-up of SPW. The remaining exceptional items mainly comprise costs 
liquidity demands that may arise from clients. These assets are not 
incurred in relation to acquisitions, including amortisation of acquired 
made available for wider corporate purposes.
intangible assets. After exceptional items, profit before tax increased to 
£64.8 million (2019: £52.9 million).
28 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
S
tra
te
g
ic
 re
p
o
rt
Reflecting these structures, the Group’s total assets increased to £21.7  Dividends 
billion at 31 December 2020 (2019: £21.3 billion). Excluding those assets  It is our policy to provide shareholders with a progressive and 
that form part of AUM, the Group’s total assets increased to £6.0 billion  sustainable dividend, targeting a payout ratio of around 50%. The 
(2019: £5.9 billion), principally as a result of retained profits being held to  payout ratio is determined as the total dividend per share in respect of 
meet increased working capital requirements. the year, divided by the Group’s pre-exceptional basic earnings per 
share. In line with this policy, the Board is recommending a final 
Investment capital represents surplus assets held in excess of operating  dividend of 79 pence per share (2019: 79 pence per share). It means a 
requirements. It is managed in accordance with limits set by the Board,  total dividend for the year of 114 pence per share (2019: 114 pence per 
with the aim of making a low volatility return. The Group Capital  share) and represents a payout ratio of 57% (2019: 57%). 
Committee supports the Chief Financial Officer in managing the 
investment capital portfolio with consideration of potential capital and  In setting the dividend, the Board has regard to overall Group strategy, 
liquidity demands, including dividend distributions. capital requirements, liquidity and profitability. This approach enables 
the Group to maintain sufficient surplus capital to take advantage of 
Investment capital is mainly comprised of investment-grade   future investment opportunities while providing financial security to 
corporate bonds and investments in our own pooled funds. During  withstand possible risk scenarios and periods of economic downturn. 
2020, investment capital reduced by £139 million to £417 million (2019: 
£556 million), primarily as we used capital to fund acquisitions, and seed  The distributable profits of Schroders plc are £2.9 billion (2019: £2.9 
new investment strategies and co-invest alongside our clients. Our seed  billion). The Group’s ability to pay dividends is, however, restricted by 
and co-investment capital increased from £578 million at 31 December  the need to hold regulatory capital and to maintain sufficient operating 
2019 to £612 million at the end of 2020. capital to support its ongoing business activities. Operating capital 
requirements include co-investments with clients and seed capital 
Other assets increased by £343 million to £5,008 million (2019: £4,665  investments in our funds to support new investment strategies. 
million). This represents assets that support our ongoing operating 
activities in the form of working capital, including assets that are  Circumstances that could adversely impact the Group’s ability to pay 
inadmissible for regulatory purposes. dividends in line with the policy include a combination of significantly 
increased costs and a prolonged deterioration in markets or 
In 2020, we continued to invest in the future growth of the business with  performance leading to reduced revenues and a consequential increase 
several acquisitions, the most significant of which was the purchase of  in the ratio of total costs to net income. After deducting the regulatory 
Sandaire. Acquisitions increased goodwill and intangible assets by £62  capital requirement and regulatory capital buffer, there continues to be 
million, before amortisation and foreign exchange movements. We  sufficient capital to maintain our current dividend level for at least three 
advanced our operational capabilities by investing further in our  years before taking account of any future profits.
technology, resulting in additions to software assets of £74 million.
Overall, I am pleased with the results which demonstrate continued 
The Group’s liquidity and regulatory capital position remains   resilience in the context of the global pandemic and further progress 
strong. Further information on this is set out in note 20 of the  against our strategic priorities. We believe that this will enable future 
financial statements. growth once broader conditions normalise.
Richard Keers
Chief Financial Officer
3 March 2021
Our approach to tax
We aim to comply with both the spirit and letter of the law and are committed  Our tax strategy, available at schroders.com/taxstrategy, sets out our 
to conducting our tax affairs in an open and transparent way.  approach to tax matters across the Group more generally. This strategy is 
reviewed and approved annually by the Audit and Risk Committee.
This means that we comply with our tax filing, reporting and payment 
obligations globally. We also seek to maintain good relationships with the tax  Taxes borne by the Group include corporate income tax on the profits arising 
authorities in the jurisdictions in which we operate. This may take the form of  in each country, indirect taxes such as value added tax on our expenses and 
discussing key developments in our business and the potential impact of those  payroll taxes on our employees’ remuneration. The total tax borne by the 
developments on the amount of tax we pay. From time to time, our views on  Group in 2020 was £245.9 million (2019: £245.7 million).
the appropriate tax treatment in any given situation may differ from those of 
Companies also have an important role to play in collecting and administering 
the tax authorities. Where this occurs, we work constructively and proactively 
taxes on behalf of governments, where the cost of tax is borne by others. This 
to achieve an early resolution. We comply with the UK’s Code of Practice on 
includes income tax and social security payments deducted from our 
Taxation for Banks and are treated as ‘low risk’ by HM Revenue & Customs. 
employees’ remuneration and indirect taxes charged to our clients. These are 
We believe it is important that businesses behave responsibly and build trust  taxes paid in addition to the taxes we bear as a business, which are referred to 
within society regarding their role and contribution on tax. With this in mind,  above. The total tax collected in 2020 was £240.7 million (2019: £244.4 million). 
we support initiatives to improve international transparency on taxation  The combined taxes borne by us as a business and the amounts collected by 
matters, including the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and  us on behalf of tax authorities in 2020 was £486.6 million (2019: £490.1 million).
Development measures on country-by-country reporting and automatic 
exchange of information. 
Further information on taxes borne and collected can be found at  
https://www.schroders.com/en/about-us/corporate-responsibility/our-economic-contribution/
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 29
A responsible business 
RESPONSIBILITY
FOR ALL
We recognise that we have an important part to play in shaping the future of our stakeholders. It is a 
responsibility we take seriously. We apply the same core values and high standards to the activities we undertake 
as a business as we do when investing for our clients. Collaboration is key to this success and we work with a 
number of external partners and as a signatory to the UN Global Compact to help inform our approach as a 
responsible business, and to advance progress towards the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
2020 highlighted the tremendous challenges that climate change   slavery risks within our business operations and supply chain, including 
and social inequalities continue to pose for all of our futures. The  company engagement activities.
bushfires in Australia, the first ‘gigafire’ in California, destructive floods 
in China and the ongoing worldwide pandemic clearly demonstrate   An approach to corporate responsibility driven by 
the acceleration of our impact on nature. In May, the shocking killing   leadership and governance
of George Floyd reignited the Black Lives Matter movement,   Our CR strategy is governed by the CR Committee, chaired by the 
sparking global protests against systemic racism. Covid-19 has also  Group Chief Executive and made up of senior representatives from 
exacerbated social inequalities and accelerated changes to all of   across the business. The Committee is responsible for reviewing and 
our lives. The opportunity for society to step up and respond has   agreeing new CR commitments and policies as well as monitoring 
never been more apparent. progress against targets. It meets at least quarterly and reports to the 
Group Management Committee (GMC) and the Board on an annual 
Since becoming a signatory to the UN Global Compact initiative,  basis.
we have reviewed our Corporate Responsibility (CR) approach and 
aligned it against the ten principles, relating to four key areas of human  We also have a global Employee Forum to enable the voices of our 
rights, people (labour), environment and anti-corruption. The ten  people to be heard directly by the Board. It comprises 12 appointed 
principles are derived from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,  representatives from across Asia, Europe and the Americas and meets 
the International Labour Organisation’s Declaration on Fundamental  twice a year with Ian King, the Senior Independent Director and chair. 
Principles and Rights at Work, the Rio Declaration on Environment and  For more information on the Employee Forum, please see page 65. The 
Development, and the UN Convention Against Corruption. Forum covers topics such as Group strategy, financial performance, 
diversity and inclusion and employee engagement. 
Respect for human rights is fundamental to contributing to society. Our 
Group Human Rights Statement describes the governance, policies and  Looking forward
processes we have in place to actively manage our human rights risks  It is important that we build leadership in key areas that are important 
as an employer, as a buyer of goods and services, and as a provider of  to our stakeholders, reflect important social priorities and in which we 
financial services and an investor in companies. Our Slavery and Human  are able to make a meaningful contribution. In 2020, we analysed the 
Trafficking Statement details how we assess and manage modern  results of a number of surveys, including our annual Global Investor 
30 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
S
tra
te
g
ic
 re
p
o
rt
We use the same values  
and principles in how we operate  
as a company as we do in our 
investment activities.
Study, Institutional Investor Study, Cazenove Capital client service  Key awards in 2020
survey and our Employee Opinion Survey, as well as industry reports, to 
assess the sustainability topics that are of material importance to our 
key stakeholders, and build a global strategy in response. We will 
continue to build on our values, culture and progress to date, focusing 
on advancing progress on diversity and inclusion, creating a lasting  Diamond award   Peter Harrison, Garth Taljard  Employer of the Year, 
positive impact on society, and improving our impact on the  for payroll giving and Amy Cho — Top 100  Singapore office
LGBT+ Executive Allies 
environment. We are also developing our leadership ambitions around 
two specific areas, which will allow us to leverage the full capabilities of 
the business and create lasting impact. These two areas are reducing 
inequalities and climate change, focusing on three SDGs and touching 
many others.
Susan Soh  Best Employee Engagement  Rated 1st for digital 
CEO of the Year Programme engagement with clients
Pledges and partnerships
We will continue to build on existing programmes of work covering 
workforce wellbeing, human rights and social mobility to support 
resilience and social cohesion within organisations and society. We also 
want to help lead the transition to a low-carbon economy and have 
committed to setting a science-based target in line with a 1.5°C 
emissions reduction pathway and reaching net zero by 2050 or sooner.
The CR strategy will be developed and delivered in collaboration  
with our stakeholders and partners. Not only do they provide a 
critical perspective on how we run our business, but they are also 
integral to its success.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 31
Our key stakeholders
Delivering positive outcomes for all 
A vital aspect of our strategy is to identify, understand and engage with 
our key stakeholders. We see our relationships with all our stakeholders  
as inter-linked and interdependent.
For more information on how the Board engages with and considers  
the interests of stakeholders in order to fully understand their views and 
take them into account in our decision-making, see pages 65 and 66.
Clients  Shareholders 
Actively helping our clients  Rewarding our shareholders 
achieve their long-term financial  through the sustained success of 
goals  our business 
Clients are the central focus of our business.  We rely on the support and engagement of 
The Group’s resilience and ongoing success  our shareholders to deliver our strategic 
are built upon our ability to understand  objectives and grow the business. Our 
clients’ needs and respond to them. We work  shareholder base supports the long-term 
to anticipate how client needs will evolve and  approach we take in the management of our 
to construct products that meet their  business.
investment needs and build future prosperity. 
The interests of our shareholders  
How do we engage with them and  are very closely aligned with those  
consider their interests?  of our clients, which means that in  
Our client service teams are the first point of  doing the right thing for our clients,  
contact for clients. They build lasting  we are also able to deliver value to those  
relationships with current and potential  who have invested in our business.
clients to develop a clear view of client 
objectives and how these are likely to evolve. How do we engage with them and 
consider their interests? 
A strategic goal of the Group is to get closer  The Board engages with shareholders at the 
to the end clients investing in our products,  AGM, which gives shareholders the 
which was a key consideration in the  opportunity to ask questions and engage 
acquisition of Sandaire. with the Board. As we were unable to hold a 
physical AGM in 2020 we organised it virtually 
Another key strategic goal is to expand  which enabled any shareholder to join and 
capabilities in Private Assets & Alternatives in  ask questions of the Board. To help the Board 
response to increased demand from clients,  maintain an understanding of the views of 
which was a consideration during the  our major shareholders, we again 
Pamfleet acquisition.  commissioned an independent investor 
perception study, covering views on strategy, 
results and competitive position.
During 2020, we continued to operate a 
complete investor programme, adapting to 
the external environment by meeting 
investors virtually. 
Regulators 
Building respectful relationships 
As a global business, we build positive relationships with our regulators  requirements. Senior management hold regular meetings with  
around the world. Regulators provide key oversight of how we run our  our regulators to foster good working relationships. The frequency of 
business. Our clients’ best interests are served by us working  these meetings and communication increased during the pandemic.
constructively with regulators.
The Audit and Risk Committee receives regular reports on  
How do we engage with them and   engagement with regulators, including how changes in regulatory  
consider their interests? regimes may impact our business. 
We regularly engage with regulators and policymakers so that  
our business understands and contributes to evolving regulatory 
32 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
S
tra
te
g
ic
Section 172 Statement  re
p
o
Section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 requires the Directors to act in the way that they  rt
consider, in good faith, would most likely promote the success of the company for the benefit 
of its members as a whole. In doing this s.172 requires a Director to have regard, amongst 
other matters, to:
–  the likely consequences of any decisions in the long term;
–  the interests of the company’s employees;
–  the need to foster the company’s business relationships with suppliers, customers and others;
–  the impact of the company’s operations on the community and environment;
–  the desirability of the company maintaining a reputation for high standards  
of business conduct; and
–  the need to act fairly as between members of the company.
Our people  Wider society 
Offering fulfilling work and   Directing our decisions and actions 
shared values to our people  towards supporting wider society 
Our people are central to the ongoing   We recognise the responsibility we have to 
success of the business and our culture is one  wider society. Schroders is a principles-led 
of our greatest assets. We are proud of our  business and we believe that demanding high 
reputation as an employer of choice. levels of corporate responsibility is the right 
thing to do.
Our people strategy aims to develop an agile 
and diverse workforce as we continue to  How do we engage with them and 
attract, retain, develop and motivate the right  consider their interests? 
people for our current and future business  We are committed to helping communities 
needs. around the world, by raising funds for specific 
causes and volunteering. Our employees are 
How do we engage with them and  widely engaged with the selection of causes 
consider their interests? that we support.
We engage with our people through a variety 
of channels including management briefings,  We launched two investment trusts, the 
videos, an internal magazine and, most  Schroder British Opportunities Trust, which 
recently, weekly updates from the Group Chief  invests in a diversified public equity and 
Executive. We have dedicated teams and  private equity portfolio of predominantly UK 
activities in every region that ensure everyone  companies, and Schroder BSC Social Impact 
is connected to the key priorities, corporate  Trust, which invests with a focus on delivering 
developments and support networks. At the  a positive social impact in the UK.
start of the year, all employees are invited to 
join sessions on business strategy and have the  Morningstar, a leading provider of 
opportunity to ask questions of senior  independent investment research, has 
management. awarded Schroders with ‘Advanced’ 
recognition in its first assessment report 
We also conduct employee opinion surveys   following the introduction of the Morningstar 
and have invested in our internal  ESG Commitment level. 
communications to help employees 
understand and deliver our strategic objectives. The Board receives an annual update on the 
Group’s corporate responsibility activities.
Ian King, our Senior Independent Director, is 
our designated non-executive Director 
responsible for gathering workforce feedback, 
and chairs the global Employee Forum to hear 
directly from employees on issues that 
concern them, and report back to the Board. 
See page 65 for more details. 
External suppliers 
Working with trusted partners 
We have established a global network of external service partners   Our Supplier Code of Conduct sets out the high standards and 
to supplement our own infrastructure, benefiting from the expertise  behaviours we expect from them, covering human rights, ethical 
and specialised skills our partners provide. sourcing, bribery and corruption, living wages, diversity and  
inclusion, health and safety and the environment.
How do we engage with them and  
consider their interests? The Audit and Risk Committee reviews the Group’s material  
We engage proactively with our external service providers through  outsource providers annually to ensure that the strategy for their  
regular communication from employees and have an established  use remains consistent with our strategy to use service partners  
framework that governs our approach to selection, on-boarding,  as a way to add value to our infrastructure. 
management, oversight and reporting across our supply chain.  
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 33
Our people
SHAPING
OUR CULTURE
Our people
Our people are integral to how we deliver value for our clients and other stakeholders. 
They have a key role to play in shaping our culture, which has been amplified this year 
as we have engaged and collaborated in new ways and under different circumstances, 
whilst remaining focused on wellbeing and development.
Our values underpin our culture Responding to Covid-19 
Engaging with employees
The global pandemic has undoubtedly had a profound impact on 
We strive for excellence our employees and the way that they work, condensing years of 
Being good at what we do is a powerful way   change into a matter of months. It has highlighted the strength of 
to create value for all our stakeholders and secure  our culture and the agility of our organisation. The majority of our 
a long-term future for our business. employees have successfully worked from home during the crisis, 
and we have reaped the benefits of investing in our technology 
We promote innovation & teamwork and embracing more flexible ways of working in recent years. We 
We challenge how things are done, anticipate  have not taken any government support or had to make any 
future opportunities and understand that to  redundancies as a result of Covid-19.
deliver value takes collaboration and a healthy 
respect for individual skills. In order to maintain connectivity, our leadership team globally 
has taken a proactive role in running more frequent all-employee 
We have passion & integrity meetings to ensure continued collaboration and understanding 
We are realistic about what we can achieve,   of priorities.
but are ambitious too, approaching everything  
we do with energy and drive. This sits alongside  
an openness and responsibility to deliver on  
our promises. Employees worked remotely at various 
times during the year
99% 
Our people around the world
57% 17% 7% 19% Government support and number of 
redundancies resulting from the 
UK
pandemic
Europe, Middle East and Africa
Americas 0
Asia
Adapting to a virtual environment
Our digital learning platform, Spark, allowed us to respond 
quickly, providing our people with support in key areas such as 
adapting to remote working, building resilience and coping with 
stress, as well as continuing to provide other relevant training 
34 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
S
tra
te
g
ic
 re
p
o
rt
2020 employee survey results*
I am proud to be  Schroders is   The organisation is   I have access to the 
associated with  interested in   doing an excellent job   training I need to  
Schroders  the wellbeing of its  of keeping employees  help me adapt and be 
  employees   informed about matters  resilient at work 
    affecting us during    
    this time   
98% 96% 96% 88%
digitally. We have also adapted our approach to enable virtual  Continuing our commitment to early careers talent
interviews and on-boarding sessions, and have received positive  To honour our commitment to developing early careers talent we  
feedback on this. More than 270 people have accessed the new joiner  provided our usual internship programme in a new, virtual format  
curriculum since it launched at the end of March. During this period, we  last summer. For six weeks, students joined the programme in  
have also seen the number of new users accessing Spark grow by 27%,  roles across the business, gaining valuable experience and further 
to more than 3,400 users. This provides scale to our learning range and  understanding of the industry. Our online recruitment tool won an 
a more consistent approach to training for our people, allowing us to  award for ‘Excellence in Applying Innovative Technology in Business 
directly engage with employees and address skill gaps. Psychology’ at the Association of Business Psychology Workforce 
Experience Awards 2020. The award was for our technology-driven, 
The shift towards remote working brought with it a broad range of new  diversity-enabling, innovative approach to assessment.
challenges for our people. We were able to recognise this and quickly 
respond to requests for additional training and toolkits in areas such as  In September, 61 graduates, trainees and apprentices joined  
virtual communication skills, mental wellbeing and managing remote  the business in London, Singapore, Hong Kong, Taiwan,  
and hybrid teams. We ran virtual sessions for around 700 employees to  Luxembourg and the US. The five-week induction phase of the 
help them adjust to this adapted way of working. programme was delivered virtually in half-day modules to 
accommodate a range of international time zones.
New users accessing Spark for online learning Number of new graduates, trainees and 
+27% apprentices
61
Providing remote support Listening to our employees
Our people have truly risen to the challenge throughout 2020 and the  Given the shift to remote working, we ran a number of more regular 
strong collaborative culture we are all proud of has shone through.   pulse surveys in place of our annual Employee Opinion Survey to 
Our communications have centred around creating a sense of  maintain a clear understanding of the issues affecting our people. This 
belonging and giving people a direct flow of information from senior  has allowed us to gather feedback at specific moments in time, and to 
leaders, emphasising the human side: this has included weekly  understand and respond to any concerns quickly. This has been critical 
podcasts from the Group Chief Executive, as well as a regular blog by  in considering our approach to an eventual return to some office-based 
our Global Head of Human Resources on topics such as juggling home  working, and the support our people require from a mental health and 
schooling with a demanding role. It has also given us a chance to share  wellbeing perspective. 
stories from our people around the world, highlighting activities that 
they are undertaking at home to keep fit and healthy, blending our 
work and home lives.
*  Data from June 2020 Pulse Survey
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 35
Our people continued
Mental health & wellbeing Breaking taboos
The safety and wellbeing of our employees and their families has   During Mental Health Awareness Week in May, our senior leaders 
been at the forefront of our decision-making process throughout   shared their experiences of dealing with their mental health to 
the pandemic. We held a number of global wellbeing events and have  encourage open, honest conversations across the organisation. We also 
offered the Covid-19 antibody and antigen testing to employees in many  ran a series of wellbeing events in collaboration with the Really Helpful 
locations. Wherever possible we have continued to give employees  Club to help normalise conversations about female-specific health 
access to professional support during lockdown, using secure digital  conditions. 
communications tools to deliver services remotely. In Hong Kong, we 
launched a virtual doctor service to provide support during their local  Career & performance
lockdown. We have promoted alternative ways to travel, such as cycling  We have continued to focus on supporting our employees’ careers and 
or walking, for those who have wanted to attend the office where and  cultivating a strong culture of feedback at Schroders. As part of our shift 
when it was safe to do so without using public transport. to remote working we introduced changes to performance 
management, incorporating quarterly employee led ‘check-ins’ instead 
of a formal mid-year review. This approach, along with a greater focus 
on feedback, fosters a greater sense of accountability and adaptability 
to change.
Inclusion month: Each one, reach one
Throughout October we ran a series of accessible challenges 
Aligning reward to our values and our clients
to help colleagues around the world embrace and share 
Competitive benefits and remuneration that reflect each employee’s 
inclusion. Our engagement opportunities ranged from digital 
individual performance as well as that of the business are important as 
workout training sessions, panel discussions with external 
we prioritise retaining our people and maintaining our ongoing 
leaders, to podcasts with senior colleagues and Q&A 
success. Our approach is explained in the Remuneration report on 
sessions. Almost 600 of our colleagues joined one or more of 
pages 75-104.
our learning sessions and over 580 completed the inclusion 
digital workout, aimed to help us learn how to be more 
Opportunities to grow & develop
inclusive of different people. The month was celebrated 
We continue to invest and nurture our workforce whilst appreciating 
around the world from World Mental Health Day in Hong 
that our ways of working are changing. Our annual learning event 
Kong, to self-care and connection in Singapore, to taking a 
‘Learnfest’ was fully virtual for the first time, with more than 950 
stand for racial justice in the US. Our internal webinars were 
employees attending. The most popular sessions included 
hosted by our Group Chief Executive and Group Chief 
sustainability, AI, know your strengths, thriving under pressure, and 
Investment Officer on our key initiatives and our Head of 
business story telling. A digital skills programme was rolled out in Asia 
Talent & Inclusion and Chair of the Schroders Black 
to build capabilities, and a new external provider for internal data 
Professionals Network on exploring the role of race and 
apprenticeships has been brought on board.
representation when it comes to inclusive leadership. Over 
2,700 employees completed our first inclusion pulse survey 
Continuing to invest in our managers
giving us further data to continue to develop our inclusion 
Our foundational programmes for new and experienced managers 
strategy into 2021. The statements below show how our 
moved online in 2020. In recognition of the challenges our managers 
approach to inclusion is yielding results. 
might be facing we created specific toolkits focused on resilience and 
wellbeing, working remotely, being an inclusive manager and our year 
At Schroders people   My manager supports  end performance reviews in light of Covid-19, which were delivered 
are treated with  flexible working in my  alongside training sessions to support them in these areas. 
fairness and respect team
Our future leadership pipeline
85% 93% Our succession plans for leadership and critical roles are reviewed on 
up 2% from 2019 up 10% from 2019 an annual basis to ensure we have the right people in place for the 
future success of the business. Whilst we look to bring in external talent 
where necessary to build new unique skills, our culture is such that we 
Sufficient effort is  Schroders recognises  look to develop internal successors wherever possible. We filled over 
made to get the  and values diversity  100 roles with internal candidates in 2020.
opinions and thinking  amongst its 
of employees employees Leading with inclusion
Our commitment to creating a truly inclusive culture at Schroders is at 
84% 86%
the centre of our people strategy, and is led by our Group Chief 
up 14% from 2019 up 4% from 2019 Executive, along with executive sponsorship from our GMC members. 
We are committed to providing equal employment opportunities and 
combating all forms of discrimination. In keeping with our equal 
My team has a climate 
opportunities policy, we give fair consideration to all employment 
in which diverse 
applications, including from disabled people, considering particular 
perspectives are 
aptitudes and abilities. If employees become disabled, employment 
valued
continues wherever possible, with retraining if necessary. For the 
82% purposes of training, career development and progression, all 
employees are treated equally as part of our commitment to making 
up 3% from 2019
Schroders an inclusive place to work. Where possible, we monitor the 
ethnicity, age, disability and gender composition of our workforce and 
those applying for jobs. Our strategy and decisions are informed by the 
data we collect from our employees and the benchmarking initiatives 
we are involved in.
36 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
S
tra
te
g
ic
 re
p
o
rt
Monitoring our progress A new approach to flexibility
We strive to make well-informed, data-driven decisions when it comes to  In response to feedback from our employees, we were able to 
diversity and inclusion and we continue to encourage our employees to  introduce a new set of principles, which govern our approach to flexible 
share relevant information with us via our HR systems. In 2020,  working. Our industry leading flexible working charter is central to our 
we added questions to provide additional insights on the socio-economic  inclusion strategy, particularly following the increase in remote working 
background of our employees. We also capture data about those  as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, opening an opportunity for all 
applying for roles within the business to confirm that we are attracting a  employees to work more flexibly going forward.
diverse range of candidates. This data is used to inform our on-boarding 
processes, and is also incorporated into pulse and exit surveys. Driving change in our industry
We firmly believe that the need to address representation in the 
We achieved our target of 33% female representation in senior  workforce is a challenge affecting our whole industry, and is not just an 
management in 2020. Diversity and inclusion remains a priority for the  organisational one. As such, we endeavour to participate in initiatives 
Board in 2021 and we will publish new targets later this year.  focused on driving change as well as benchmarking our efforts as a 
company. As part of our commitment to the UN Global Compact, we 
Our innovative digital approach to early careers recruiting has now been  participated in the Women’s Empowerment Principles benchmark for the 
expanded to our experienced hiring processes. We also offered two  first time. We also engaged with over 180 companies during 2020 on 
‘returnships’ (those returning to industry after a career break) in our ESG  employee and board diversity issues.
business to encourage a more diverse pipeline of talent in our 
investment business. Our involvement in the #100blackinterns campaign  In 2020, we have purposefully broadened our pledges to reflect our 
and a new inclusive mentoring programme for ethnic minorities also  wider commitment to ethnicity and disability as well as being a more 
forms part of our strategy to build a more diverse workforce. gender balanced organisation. This has included becoming a signatory 
to the Race at Work Charter, the Valuable500, and Change the Race 
A robust framework Ratio as well as supporting the #FlexUK campaign and continuing to 
Our 13 Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) have continued to support  meet the Board diversity targets set by the Parker Review. As part of our 
our grass roots approach to driving awareness and building an inclusive  being Disability Confident Level 1 (committed) we are able to respond 
culture: our Black Professionals Network expanded to New York in  and make adjustments to those who flag a disability during the 
2020, our millennial network ran a reverse mentoring programme in  interview process. We were listed in the top 75 employers in the Social 
Asia and over 200 people signed up to this year’s virtual Diwali events.  Mobility Foundation’s benchmark and participated in new research 
Despite the challenges of Covid-19, online events have continued  around social mobility, sponsored by the Diversity Project. We have 
throughout the year and have been supplemented with multimedia  worked closely with the Diversity Project and the Investment 
digital content on key topics like mental health and race. Our executive  Association on initiatives to position investment management as an 
sponsors have been able to participate in events, sharing their own  attractive industry for diverse talent. This includes programmes like 
stories with employees. i2020 and a recent research report on socio-economic barriers to entry 
to the financial services industry.
Gender diversity statistics  Schroders plc Directors Senior management1
(2019 vs. 2020)
2020 2019 2020 2019
Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male
5 (45%) 6 (55%) 4 (40%) 6 (60%) 327 (33%) 674 (67%) 270 (32%) 586 (68%)
Subsidiary directors2  Total senior management All employees3
2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019
Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male
31 (24%) 97 (76%) 26 (24%) 84 (76%) 358 (31%) 781 (69%) 296 (31%) 670 (69%) 2,283 (41%) 3,288 (59%)2,273 (40%)3,400 (60%)
1. Senior management includes members of the GMC, the direct reports of the GMC and the direct reports one level below that, in each case excluding 
administrative and other ancillary roles. The data excludes executive Directors and includes some persons who are also subsidiary directors. 
2. Other subsidiary directors comprises directors of subsidiaries who are not classified as Senior management. 
3. All employees includes permanent and temporary staff. 
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 37
Society and communities
CREATING
POSITIVE IMPACT
Society and communities
We remain committed to our strategy of driving progress and improving futures. 
2020 quickly became the year when this mattered more than ever. Supporting the 
communities around us is a vital role we were proudly able to fulfil. Our people led the 
way with many forms of direct support right across the business.
Looking after our communities Improving futures with Schroders Giving
Covid-19 thrust the ‘S’ of ESG (environmental, social and governance)  Our Schroders Giving partnerships underpin our ambition to improve 
into the spotlight and amplified existing inequalities across many areas,  futures and we remain committed to supporting them during these 
including income, health, education and ethnicity. Our communities  difficult times. We fast tracked eight grants in 2020, paying them early 
have never needed our support more and we are proud that our people  to help charities carry on their vital work and deliver many of their 
have taken action together, contributing to our response to the  programmes online.
pandemic. In March, we reallocated £500,000 of our charitable funds 
towards an emergency grants programme, which targeted those most 
affected by the crisis. Our approach was focused on charities that 
Empowering our people to improve futures  
supported: children in need; those struggling with their mental health; 
across the globe
food banks; helping the helpers; and supporting the elderly. A month 
This year we ran our second annual charity competition.  
later, we launched our global Schroders Giving campaign called 
This opportunity allowed our employees around the globe to 
#CollectiveAction. Through donations and fundraising challenges, our 
propose charities of their choice, under two categories, people and 
people collectively raised £3.8 million in 16 weeks for 95 charities 
the planet. Fifty charity submissions were made and over 1,100 
around the world, totalling £4.3 million for the overall campaign. More 
employees around the world engaged with the platform either 
about the campaign can be found on pages 40-41 of this report.
through voting or submitting their own choice of charities. The 
winners were Action Against Hunger and the Marine Conservation 
Alongside our #CollectiveAction campaign, we have continued to work 
Society, who were each awarded £50,000.
with our existing community partners to have a positive impact in the 
societies in which we live and work. Our focus remains on inclusion, as 
we tackle social mobility and support mental health. We continue to 
make progress towards the UN Sustainable Development Goals 
through our partnerships, with a particular focus on: reduced 
inequalities, quality education, decent work and economic growth, and 
reduced inequalities.
We also regularly engage with the companies in which we invest on 
community-related issues. For example, in 2020 we collaborated with 
other investors to write to leading mining companies about their 
indigenous communities practices. The letter requested further 
information on actions companies have undertaken to manage risks in 
light of the destruction of the Juukan caves in Australia. While this 
example arose in Australia and aimed to prevent future loss of 
indigenous heritage, the principles apply to projects globally.
38 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
S
tra
te
g
ic
 re
p
o
rt
Supporting good mental health IntoUniversity aims to address the problem of educational inequality and 
The pandemic has had a major impact on mental health and wellbeing  social exclusion by supporting young people from disadvantaged 
across the world. Good mental health is vital to the success and  backgrounds to aspire and achieve their full potential. As a partner, we 
productivity of our people and we have worked closely with our partner,  sponsor their Kennington branch in South London. The centre team were 
Samaritans, to run a number of mental health workshops for our UK  able to engage with more than 1,000 students across their programmes 
employees this year. of academic and pastoral support between September 2019 and March 
2020. Following the lockdown they provided remote services to continue 
We are also supporting their work to be there for people who need  student support and made over 1,200 calls to their families. 
someone to listen, with both funding and time. Despite lockdown, 91 
employees in the UK have registered to become a Samaritan at the new  Our partner Enactus UK, a charity that supports young people in the UK  
City Hub in London Bridge, which launched in September. to engage in youth social action and enterprise, ran their National 
Competition virtually. Our partnership supports the delivery of their school 
We worked with a number of other investors to encourage other FTSE  and university ‘youth social action’ and ‘youth social programme’, including 
100 companies to put measures in place to help support employees’  the funding for training of their coaches and teachers. The Enactus 
mental health during the Covid-19 pandemic. In line with our own  programme works in 60 universities, engaging up to 3,000 students a 
actions, we asked companies to consider training for line managers,  year. At their National Competition this year, the University of Nottingham 
increased flexibility in both working patterns and performance  won for their social enterprises which tackle food waste and their project 
appraisals and provide appropriate support systems. to combat malnutrition in Ugandan school children. We are proud to work 
with the Amos Bursary who work to reduce the opportunity gap for young 
Inclusion black men. We sponsor three students on the programme over five years 
We partner with a number of leading organisations to tackle social  which offers support at university, opportunities to participate in overseas 
mobility in the UK and despite the challenges lockdown has brought,  internships as well as increased networking opportunities. We have also 
each partnership has continued to work effectively to support students  worked with the Snowdon Trust to reduce the barriers for disabled 
across multi-channel communication platforms. The Sutton Trust, who  students, supporting seven talented students to fulfil their potential.
champion social mobility from birth to workplace, launched their new 
online platform which has supported 7,600 students this summer. We 
support their Pathways to Banking and Finance programme which  Launch of Improving Futures: virtual series
supports a cohort of about 100 students. They have worked with 13 of  Despite lockdown and an inability to run in-person events we 
their university partners to deliver their UK Summer Schools online and  wanted students to continue the conversation with our employees 
have delivered six new pieces of research which aim to keep the social  and break down the barriers to our industry. In September, we 
mobility consequences of the pandemic front and centre. launched an ‘Improving Futures: virtual series’. The series created 
an opportunity for students from low socio-economic 
We have continued to run our own virtual engagement opportunities  backgrounds to meet experts from across our business. We 
with our UK partners, including virtual work placements and moving  worked with seven of our strategic partners to run the workshops 
our annual ‘Futures Day’ event online, which was joined by over 100  and choose the topics. Our pilot series ran for nine weeks and 80 
students from social mobility cold spots across the country. Our  students either joined the sessions or watched the recorded 
mentoring programmes with the Social Mobility Foundation, which  sessions. The sessions covered both practical skills such as 
supports high-achieving students from low-income backgrounds,  application writing tips, as well as insights into the career journeys 
reached capacity this year. We have also worked with Key4Life to run  of our people, our culture and values, and day-to-day roles.
similar programmes which are dedicated to supporting some of the 
most marginalised members of our society.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 39
Society and communities continued
#COLLECTIVE
ACTION
In the US, we have continued our longtime partnership with READ  Driving progress and improving futures is at  
Alliance, which works to improve the educational trajectory of early  the heart of what we want to achieve through 
elementary students by providing one-to-one foundational reading 
Schroders Giving. We maintained this ethos 
skills from older students. During Covid-19, they moved their dual-
during the pandemic, while pivoting our efforts  
impact programme online and in their five-week pilot served 106 
children, employing 74 teens to continue supporting students.  to meet the needs of communities made 
vulnerable around the world. With the aim  
In Singapore, we launched an inaugural SchAuction, raising employee  of helping people most affected by the pandemic, 
donations (with company matching) for our long-term partner Beyond 
£4.3 million was donated to over 90 charities 
Social Services and its Family Assistance Fund. This helped support over 
through our charitable campaign.
1,200 low-income families affected by the crisis and allowed them to 
continue running their youth programmes. 
In April, we launched our charitable response to Covid-19 and 
In Hong Kong, our partner Music Children Foundation provide music  asked our people to unite in #CollectiveAction to support our  
education to underprivileged children, which helps to build their skills  local communities. Our people helped us to choose the focus of 
and values. They moved their programmes online and continued their  our charitable giving and the three themes that mattered most 
annual concert, allowing hundreds of children to continue showcasing  to them:
their musical talents.
–  Providing food and essentials
Charitable giving –  Helping the helpers
We have always supported our people in their own charitable efforts  –  Supporting vulnerable people
and it is part of our strategy to be an employer of choice. We commit to 
empowering our employees to support the causes that matter to them 
by running a number of charitable schemes that enable them to make 
monetary contributions and donate their time. In 2020, we donated  Our donations went towards many 
£4.9 million to charitable causes around the world (2019: £2.1 million), 
causes, here are just three impact 
£821,000 of which was outside of the UK (2019: £569,000). Alongside 
our Schroders Giving partnerships, we continue to run our employee- stories from our #CollectiveAction 
led charitable giving schemes, which will match internal and external 
campaign:
employee fundraising. This year we were awarded the Diamond Payroll 
Giving award by the Charities Aid Foundation: 28% of our UK employees 
used the Give As You Earn scheme (2019: 29%), which saw £1,098,408  National Emergencies Trust (NET), UK
(2019: £855,350) donated by employees before the contributions were 
matched by Schroders.
Helping the helpers
£261,000
In addition to financial donations, we have provided gifts in kind, 
organised charitable collections and supported our employees in giving 
back to the community through volunteering. In 2020, Australia fought  Towards their Coronavirus Appeal which distributes funds to 
one of its worst bushfire seasons, fuelled by record-breaking  frontline charities and groups all over the UK helping the most 
temperatures and months of drought. We ran an emergency appeal to  vulnerable in their communities. Since March 2020 the Appeal has 
support our Australian colleagues’ fundraising efforts. Over £4,000 was  supported more than 12,000 local projects. Seven million people 
raised for the Australian Red Cross. expect to seek charitable support in the coming year; nearly 
two-thirds for the first time ever.
We offer a time matching scheme for volunteering outside office hours 
and up to 15 hours of volunteer leave per year. This year we doubled our 
volunteer leave to empower colleagues to support their communities.  New York Cares, US
Employees around the world contributed over 1,675 hours of volunteer 
work, inside and outside of office hours. We have continued to work with  Providing food and essentials
Governors for Schools and Reach Volunteering to develop, build and use 
£74,000
our people’s skills for good causes in the charity sector. We recognise 
volunteering as a fundamental development tool to progress our 
people’s professional and personal skills and will build on this next year. Towards providing meals for homebound and food-insecure 
elderly people, and transitioning 15% of their programming to 
virtual and phone banking.
Amount employees in the UK donated through the 
Beyond Social Services, Singapore
payroll giving scheme before matching
£1,098,408 Supporting vulnerable people
£171,000
Towards the Covid-19 Family Assistance Fund, which at the end  
of June has supported 1,155 families. The funds are distributed  
to families whose income is now further reduced because of 
Covid-19; each family receives between £170-£290 for a period of 
three months.
40 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
S
“It is testament to the  tra
te
g
ic
incredible spirit of generosity   re
p
o
rt
and kindness within 
Schroders that we have been 
able to raise this much in such 
a short space of time.”
Peter Harrison, Group Chief Executive
Money raised for   Money raised for   Money raised for   Money raised for 
charities supporting  charities providing  charities helping   other charities 
vulnerable people food and essentials  the helpers affected by Covid-19
£821,000 £578,000 £1,460,000 £1,444,000
Watch our #CollectiveAction impact video and read our full impact report at  
schroders.com/collectiveaction-impactreport
Campaign summary
– Directors donated 25% of pay for three months
– Executive Directors gave up their long term incentive plan awards 
granted in March 2020 in favour of a corporate charity donation
– Payroll scheme allowed our people to donate up to 25% of salary for 
three months – with matching by Schroders
– A doubling of volunteer leave and ‘mapathon’ events launched with 
the Missing Maps Project to map developing countries such as Peru 
and Botswana
– Our #WeAre5110 and #34Together fundraising challenges raised 
£30,000 for Médecins Sans Frontières – with matching by Schroders
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 41
The environment
PROTECTING
OUR ENVIRONMENT
The environment
We recognise that environmental issues, including climate change, present some of the most significant 
challenges facing the world. We anticipate that these challenges will be a defining driver of the global economy 
and financial markets over the coming years, as well as having a significant impact for wider society.
Significant and disruptive changes are needed to decarbonise the  reducing inequalities and climate change. This highlights our ambition 
global economy quickly enough to achieve targets set by world leaders  to lead the transition to a low carbon economy through our investment 
in Paris in 2015. By early 2021, countries representing around  activities and the action that we take within our own operations. As part 
two-thirds of global GDP have committed to carbon neutrality, with a  of this, we have committed to setting a science-based target in 2021, 
growing list of policy initiatives to underpin those goals. The entire  which will be in line with a 1.5°C emissions reduction pathway and 
global economy and every industry and company that forms part of it  reaching net zero across our value chain by 2050, or sooner.
will be affected to some extent. 
Within our investment business, we achieved full ESG integration in 
As an active investment manager and a responsible business, we have  2020. We intend to migrate our assets under management to align with 
an important role to play in managing the impact that our business and  a net zero pathway, mindful of the fiduciary duty that we have to our 
wider value chain has on the world around us. As part of our  clients. As part of this goal, we have joined the Net Zero Asset Managers 
commitment to responsible consumption and production, we aim to  initiative, signalling our intention to achieve net zero emissions in our 
minimise the impact that our own business has on the environment  managed assets by 2050, with interim targets set along the way. We 
and actively engage and work with those that we invest in to encourage  firmly believe that companies that demonstrate good governance and 
them to do the same. sustainability practices will be more likely to deliver returns to investors, 
and that integrating ESG factors into our investment process will result 
Following analysis of stakeholder surveys and feedback, we have  in positive outcomes for our clients.
recently developed our CR strategy to focus on two core areas – 
Our path to net zero
Committed to setting a science-based target by the end of 2021
Operating on a carbon neutral basis within our own   Targeting transition of managed assets in line with a net zero 
operations since 2019 pathway by 2050 or sooner
Scope 1 (direct emissions) Scope 2 (indirect emissions  Scope 3 (all other indirect emissions in our value chain)
from electricity)
Key actions and commitments
Commitment to use 100% renewable electricity by 2025 Signatory to Net Zero Asset Managers initiative
ISO 14001 accreditation Letter to FTSE 350 calling for transparency on climate action
Ongoing disclosure via CDP and TCFD frameworks
42 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
S
tra
te
g
ic
 re
p
o
rt
Carbon offsetting with ClimateCare
Since 2019, we have been operating our business on a carbon 
neutral basis. We have partnered with ClimateCare to develop an 
environmentally credible carbon offset programme that will 
predominantly support the protection and generation of natural 
carbon sinks. Our employees selected three projects in Brazil, 
Uganda and Sierra Leone.
The clear winner in our employee vote was a forest protection 
project in the Amazon. The Climate, Community and Biodiversity 
Standards double gold project located in the micro region of Portel, 
Para, protects 180,000 hectares of unique biome. To prevent 
deforestation and degradation, the project actively engages  
with local residents, training them in forest management and 
monitoring techniques. The project will save 22 million tonnes  
of COe over the project’s 40-year lifespan.
2
Our operational greenhouse gas footprint reduced significantly in 2020 compared to 2019, mainly due to reduced business travel. For more 
information on our greenhouse gas footprint, please see page 46. We remain committed to our carbon offsetting programme and have chosen to 
retire the same amount of verified carbon credits for 2020 as we did in 2019.
Sustainability and environmental rankings
A- AAA 18.8/low risk
We have been a supporter of the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force for Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) since its launch in June 2017 and are committed to aligning 
our reporting with its recommendations. TCFD seeks to provide investors with increased 
awareness of climate-related risks and opportunities, and we support this objective.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 43
The environment continued
Climate-related financial disclosures
Governance work closely with the Global Head of Investment to ensure they are 
Our response to climate-related issues forms an integral part of our  effectively identifying climate-related risks in their portfolios. Our own 
business strategy, with overall responsibility for the delivery of that  business operations are managed as part of our physical infrastructure 
strategy sitting with the Group Chief Executive. The business has an  and supply chain management functions, reporting to the Chief 
established risk management framework to identify risks and  Financial Officer.
opportunities. The governance mechanism for reviewing the potential 
impacts of these is through the Audit and Risk Committee, which  We have a Corporate Responsibility (CR) Committee, which is chaired  
receives quarterly reports on key risks impacting the business, once of  by the Group Chief Executive and includes management 
which is climate change. The Committee provides an update to the  representatives from across the business. It meets at least quarterly 
Board after each meeting on matters discussed.  and is responsible for assessing and managing our CR strategy, which 
includes our approach to climate-related issues. The CR Committee 
The Group Risk Committee (GRC), chaired by the Chief Financial Officer,  reports at least annually to the GMC and the Board. In November 2020, 
works to assess and manage climate-related risks and opportunities,  the Group Chief Executive presented to the Board on corporate 
both in our own operations and investing activities. The GRC is   purpose, which included an update on CR and covered climate-related 
made up of senior stakeholders across our business globally and  risks and opportunities. This discussion helped guide our ambition in 
normally meets ten times per year. this area and focus on climate-related issues.
The management of climate-related risks and opportunities in our  Members of the GMC have specific objectives relating to sustainability 
investments is the responsibility of the Global Head of Investment, who  and the management of climate-related issues, with a proportion  
is supported by a number of committees, including the ESG Steering  of their variable remuneration dependent on progress against  
Committee. He is also a member of the GMC. Our fund managers   these objectives.
Strategy
The decarbonisation of the global economy as we transition towards net zero poses a number of risks and opportunities to our business and those 
that we invest in. We consider these over the following time horizons:
0-5 years: Short term 5-10 years: Medium term 10 years +: Long term 
Risk Description Timeframe Impact
Market Changing client behaviour impacting demand for our products Medium term Decreased revenue
Physical The impact on physical operations of extreme weather events or  Long term Increased capital expenditure
changes in temperature
Regulatory  Changes to current/emerging climate-related regulation that  Long term Decreased profitability
and legal impact how companies operate
Reputation Perception of not having responded appropriately to  Medium term Decreased revenue
climate challenges
Technology The need to keep up with technological advancements to examine  Medium term Impact on fund performance  
and manage climate risks and opportunities and revenue
Opportunity Description Timeframe Impact
Products  Evolution of product range in response to opportunities Medium term Increased revenue
and services
Market  Adapting investment proposition to reflect client preferences Medium term Better competitive position and 
increased revenue
Resilience Providing products to manage the impacts of climate change Short term Increased revenues
Energy  Use of new technology and lower emission sources to reduce our  Medium term Reduced indirect costs
source  environmental impact
44 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
S
tra
te
g
ic
 re
p
o
rt
The impact of these risks and opportunities, and our ability to continue  In each case, we assess the changes required to cut emissions 
operating, is monitored on an ongoing basis by business areas across  sufficiently to meet that scenario pathway. We have developed models 
the organisation. This is supplemented with at least annual assessments  to assess the impacts of those changes on the investments we manage 
of our business continuity arrangements and operational resilience. and on our own operations, where material. To date, the analysis of our 
investments has focused predominantly on public equity and credit 
The process of assessing and measuring climate risk and opportunities  markets, and sovereign bonds. 
in client portfolios is undertaken via a number of proprietary tools, 
which provide a forward-looking measure of the impact of businesses.  We have used our proprietary tools to assess investment risks and 
This covers their impact from both a climate and broader sustainability  opportunities on our own business. Our model implies that there would 
perspective, as well as looking at the financial risks and opportunities  not be a material impact on our profitability as a result of carbon prices 
they face. We also make use of external measures, such as MSCI  rising to USD 100/t, or as a consequence of other physical risks. This 
Carbon Emissions and MSCI ESG scores. reflects the progress we have made to incorporate ESG factors into our 
investment decisions processes, and the limited exposure of our 
Scenario analysis is a vital element of our ability to assess the  operational activities.
implications of different climate pathways for our business and those 
businesses that we invest in, and helps us prepare for the potential  All of our analysis suggests that risks are significant for markets more 
impacts. We have reviewed many of the emissions scenarios published  broadly, which is why climate change has been a major strand of our 
by various organisations. However, we have primarily focused on those  engagement with investee companies and our clients. We continue to 
produced by the International Energy Agency (IEA), which are widely  increase and evolve this engagement, participating in initiatives such as 
used by policy makers and other stakeholders. In particular, we have  CDP’s non-disclosure campaign and sharing research on the subject on 
focused on the Sustainable Development Scenario (SDS) analysis in our  our website.
assessment of a more rapid climate transition. 
Understanding our stakeholders’ views on climate change is also key to 
The SDS analysis plots the trajectory of emissions over the coming  effectively managing risks and opportunities. We actively monitor client 
decades, globally and in specific economic sectors, needed to limit long  views via surveys including our annual Global Investor Study and 
term temperature rises to 1.6-1.8°C above pre-industrial levels. Rather  engage with policymakers and many other stakeholders to ensure we 
than aiming to restate or refine that analysis, we focus on building an  can meet their expectations and provide effective solutions in this area. 
understanding of the implications of that transition for the value drivers  More information on our industry involvement and advocacy in this 
that will impact our business, both through their effects on our own  area can be found in our 2020 Sustainable Investment Report. 
operations and the investments we manage. In particular, we have 
focused on five dimensions of impact: Risk management
Climate change is recognised as a key risk within our risk management 
–  The effects of the higher carbon prices that will be needed to  framework, which can be seen on pages 53-55. This incorporates both 
incentivise a transition away from carbon intensive activities physical risks from extreme weather events and transition risks as the 
–  Stranded assets, leaving identified fossil reserves undeveloped global economy decarbonises.
–  The impact on growth and value of the capital reallocation needed to 
reshape economies and industries Individual business areas are responsible for identifying, assessing  
–  The credit risks posed to financial institutions and responding to the climate-related risks and opportunities within 
–  The impacts of rising risks to companies’ physical assets their specific activities, with oversight carried out by the Group Risk 
function and risks reported to the GRC, the Audit and Risk Committee, 
and the Board. 
A climate lens on the impact of our investments
Climate Progress  Physical Risk Carbon VaR SustainEx™
Dashboard Estimates the cost of  Measures the extent to  Quantifies the 
An objective, transparent  protecting assets against  which higher carbon prices  environmental and social 
and comprehensive view  extreme weather events as  could put profits and  benefits and impacts 
of the pace and scale of  a percentage of a  returns at risk as we  created by companies. 
global climate action.  company’s total value.  transition to a lower- Uses academic research to 
Tracks the pace of change  Incorporates data on  carbon economy. analyse more than 9,000 
across a range of  location of assets to drive  companies.
measures required to  engagement with most 
meet long-term emissions  exposed companies.
reduction targets.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 45
The environment continued
Business areas carry out impact assessments and develop plans to  Metrics and targets
ensure continued operation in the case of a climate change event,  We use a number of metrics and targets to track progress against our 
overseen by business continuity specialists in the organisation. In  strategy on climate change and ensure that we are responding 
addition, we carry out regular reviews on our properties, which include  appropriately to risks and opportunities facing our business.
a detailed assessment of risks and opportunities. Where opportunities 
for enhancements are identified, recommendations are escalated to the  Our greenhouse gas footprint
GRC and GMC for discussion and agreement. As part of our commitment to increasing transparency and reducing 
our impact on the environment, we have enhanced our emissions 
From an investment perspective, we need to ensure that our fund  disclosure for 2020, providing a more detailed breakdown and 
managers are able to identify and assess climate-related risks and  reporting additional Scope 1 and 3 emissions, including company-
opportunities. Research teams include physical and transition risks and  owned vehicles, transmission and distribution of purchased energy, 
opportunities as part of the company analysis that fund managers use. and waste.
To standardise and streamline this research process, the Sustainable  We have also decided to include the radiative forcing index to our air 
Investment team has developed proprietary tools, designed to support  travel emissions from 2020 and have restated our 2019 greenhouse gas 
understanding of the sustainability of a company’s business model. This  footprint figures accordingly. This takes into consideration the impacts 
allows for easier sharing of information between teams and allows us  of non-CO aircraft emissions at high altitudes, such as water vapour, 
2
to identify market-wide trends and insights. aerosols and nitrogen oxides. 
Our greenhouse gas footprint
2020  2019 
(tCOe) (tCOe)
2 2
Scope 1 – gas (fuel building-related) 381 520
Scope 1 – company-owned vehicles 123 280
Total Scope 1 emissions 504 800
Scope 2 – purchased electricity (location-based) 3,202 4,184
Scope 2 – purchased electricity (market-based) 1,503 Data not collected
Scope 2 – purchased heat (location-based) 397 608
Total Scope 2 emissions (location-based) 3,599 4,792
Scope 3 – fuel-and-energy-related activities (not included in Scope 1 or 2) 262 Data not collected
Scope 3 – waste generated in operations 150 Data not collected
Scope 3 – business travel 2,209 18,485
Total Scope 3 emissions (transmission, waste & travel) 2,621 18,485
Total Scope 1, 2, and selected 3 emissions (location-based) 6,724 24,077
COe emissions per employee 1.21 4.49
2
Streamlined energy and carbon reporting 
2020 2019
UK operations 10,575,897 14,124,439
Energy consumed (kWh) Outside UK operations 5,459,453 7,024,828
UK operations 2,311 3,330
Scope 1 and 2 (location-based) emissions (tCOe) Outside UK operations 1,792 2,262
2
UK operations 258 Data not collected
Scope 1 and 2 (market-based) emissions (tCOe) Outside UK operations 1,749 Data not collected
2
The following footnotes apply to both tables above. Emissions and energy data disclosed is from 1 January to 31 December inclusive. The financial control boundary approach has been 
applied to our greenhouse gas inventory. Entities excluded from this reporting boundary are Pamfleet and Sandaire.
We report our global emissions inventory using the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard as our framework for calculations and disclosure. In line with GHG Protocol guidance, a market-
based emissions methodology is used to calculate Scope 2 emissions, using information from the specific energy source or supplier. This reflects our emissions from purchased energy and 
includes details of renewable energy usage, which reduces overall emissions. It represents the active choices that we have made in our energy consumption decisions. So that comparisons 
can be made where a market-based system is not available, companies also report a location-based emissions figure. This reflects average emissions intensity and is based on information 
captured at a national or regional level. Our Scope 3 emissions reported have been calculated in accordance with the GHG Protocol Scope 3 Calculation Guidance. 
In the streamlined energy and carbon reporting table, energy consumed is presented in kWh and the information presented correlates to Scope 1 and 2 emissions totals in the greenhouse 
gas footprint table.
We have used the UK Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2020, EPA and other internationally recognised sources. 
Our Scope 1, 2 and reported Scope 3 emission data points have been independently reviewed by Incendium Consulting and assured for accuracy. BlueOrchard figures for 2019 have been 
assured by South Pole.
46 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
S
tra
te
g
ic
 re
p
o
rt
For our own business operations, business travel has historically been  In 2019, we committed to using 100% renewable electricity across all 
the highest contributor. As part of our 2020 budget, we committed to  operational properties by 2025 and have achieved 67% to date. This has 
reducing this by 30% in 2020. Given the impact of the Covid-19  decreased by 1% from 2019 as our property estate has increased in 
pandemic, we have seen an even more significant reduction in business  2020. This is also below our 2020 interim target of 75%. In 2021, we will 
travel with international travel reducing by 88%. Once travel restrictions  develop a global energy procurement strategy to increase our focus on 
are lifted we will be able to evaluate the impact of flexible working and  achieving this target.
improved conferencing technology on maintaining a reduction in 
business travel to below our 2019 emissions levels. Our data has been verified and further information is disclosed in our 
CDP submission, publicly available on the CDP website. This is our 
The lockdown measures imposed across many of the countries that   method of comprehensive climate change disclosure and where we 
we operate in throughout 2020 have also had a knock-on effect for a  have achieved a leadership level score of A- for the first time in 2020.
number of our other emissions figures across Scope 1 and 2. While 
several of our larger offices remained open as usual (with additional  In order to make continuous improvements to our performance  
hygiene protocols in place) in order to maintain critical processes, which  across various environmental metrics, we made a number of changes 
could not be conducted virtually, there were various points in the year  to our operational tools and processes in 2020. We rolled out an 
where a number of our offices were closed. This has reduced our  environmental accounting tool to improve the measurement and 
overall consumption of electricity and heat, as well as gas and vehicle  transparency of our environmental impact across energy, transport, 
emissions, over the course of the year. We also looked at ways to save  waste, water and paper. 
energy, for example, our Global Technology team in our London and 
Horsham offices changed the power settings on monitors in the new  Our global headquarters in London was awarded ISO 14001 
Covid-safe set up, saving 8,700 kWh of electricity each week. accreditation, an international environmental standard that helps 
businesses to minimise their environmental impact, and we began  
Due to more people working remotely in 2020, both as a result of  the process of seeking the same accreditation for our offices in  
Covid-19 response measures and our new Flexible Working Charter, we  New York and Hong Kong.
conducted a global employee survey to estimate additional emissions 
from remote working. Homeworking emissions have been calculated  We also plan to pursue the EP100 Net Zero Carbon Buildings pathway 
using the whitepaper from EcoAct. We undertook a survey of our  in the UK, meaning that we will only own and occupy assets that are  
employees to understand working practices before and during the  net zero emissions by 2030. We have set an interim target to reduce  
pandemic, and have used various industry sources to capture the  our emissions by 10% per square foot by 2025, focusing primarily on 
impact of our employees working at home including heating and  our London headquarters, which currently accounts for approximately 
cooling requirements, lighting, and use of technology. Based on a  half of our building-related global emissions.
sample size of 974 employees across 23 countries, we estimate that the 
global emissions associated with home working was 1,838 tCOe in  This is the first year that we have gathered data on a global basis for 
2
2020. We also estimate the emissions associated with employee  waste and recycling. We plan to further develop waste targets for all of 
commuting was 1,047 tCOe. We will continue to review and develop  our sites and prioritise awareness raising to drive behavioural change, 
2
the accuracy of the data points used in this pilot methodology for future  which is key to achieving our ambitions. We achieved a rate of 72% 
reporting years. recycling in our London headquarters and have increased this target to 
80% by 2022. 
In 2019, we committed to targeting year-on-year reductions in  
gross greenhouse gas emissions, measured in tonnes of COe per  Within our investment business, we achieved the full integration  
2
employee. In 2020, we achieved a 73% reduction in COe emissions   of ESG factors into the investment analysis of all managed assets in 
2
with a decrease to 1.21 tonnes per employee (2019: 4.49 tonnes   2020, verified by the Sustainable Investment team. Our fund managers 
per employee). use ESG risk dashboards to monitor climate and sustainability risk 
within their portfolios, with a number of our proprietary tools providing 
Our total carbon output has reduced by 72% in 2020, despite the  key metrics within those dashboards.
increase in size and scale of our business, as we increased our AUM  
to £574.4 billion and grew our average headcount by 4%. 
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 47
TThhee  eennvviirroonnmmeenntt  ccoonnttiinnuueedd
Employees championing positive environmental impact
The battle against plastic pollution has been constrained by 
Covid-19, following increased demand for single-use items such  
as personal protective equipment and a spike in the use of online 
retail and food packaging. Reducing our single-use plastic 
consumption is important to us, that is why we joined millions of 
people around the world to take part in the Plastic Free July 
movement, aiming to raise awareness and tackle the issue. We 
hosted an Investor Download podcast with our Head of ESG 
Engagement and Senior Corporate Responsibility Executive on  
‘How do we tackle plastics at Schroders?’, highlighting the important 
role we play in engaging with companies on plastics and looking at 
our own operations. Colleagues across the business took part in a 
short film called ‘Time to kick our throwaway culture’ and joined a 
‘zero-waste mindset’ workshop to challenge our own individual 
habits. We also caught up with our partner Hannah Mills, British 
Olympic Sailor, on the Big Plastic Pledge which aims to eradicate 
single-use plastics in sport. After competing in the 2016 Rio Olympic 
Games, Hannah’s eyes were opened to the plastics crisis we face, 
and she set up the Big Plastic Pledge to unite athletes and sports 
fans alike to kick the plastic problem.
Earth Day 2020
In April, Schroders joined a billion people around the world to  
take part in Earth Day – the world’s largest environmental 
movement. This year’s theme was ‘climate action’ and we worked 
with colleagues across the business to create a video. Colleagues 
from around the world shared what they do in their day-to-day  
lives to have a positive impact on the environment, from minimising 
their meat consumption to cycling to work. We also heard from 
experts in our Sustainable Investment team highlighting how  
we are integrating climate change considerations, using our  
Climate Progress Dashboard, and broader ESG into our investment 
processes and client conversations. 
48 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
S
tra
te
g
ic
 re
p
o
rt
Non-financial Reporting Directive
The table below sets out where stakeholders can find more information that relates to non-financial matters, as required under  
the new Non-financial Reporting Directive.
Reporting  Policies and standards which   Due diligence, outcomes and   Page
requirements govern our approach1 additional information
Environmental   Environmental, social and governance policy Our approach to corporate responsibility 30
matters Statement of compliance with UN Principles for  ESG engagements 18
Responsible Investment Climate change and the environment  42
Group Environment Statement
Employees Guiding principles and values Retention of key talent 24
Directors’ remuneration policy Creating a place where people want to work 34
Policy on Board diversity Gender diversity 37
Group health and safety policy Employee opinion survey highlights 35
Group malus and clawback policy Policy on Board diversity 67
Internal HR policies including equal opportunities  Remuneration report 75 
policy, flexible working policy, parents and family leave 
policy, mental health and wellbeing policy, trans-
inclusion policy
Human rights Slavery and human trafficking statement Our approach to corporate responsibility 30
Supplier Code of Conduct Human rights 30
Personal data policy Our suppliers 33
Environmental, social and governance policy Our clients 32
UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights Human rights 30
Group Human Rights Statement
Social matters Volunteering policy Our approach to corporate responsibility 30
Supplier Code of Conduct Our communities 38
Environmental, social and governance policy Charitable giving 40
Statement of compliance with the UK Stewardship Code Our clients 32
Statement of compliance with UN Principles for  The environment 42
Responsible Investment Our approach to tax 29
Anti-bribery and  Financial Crime policies (covering anti-money  Key risks and mitigations 50
anti-corruption laundering, counter-terrorist financing, anti-bribery,  Process risk 55
sanctions and tax evasion) Creating a place people want to work 34
Inducements policy
Whistleblowing policy
Conflicts of Interest policy
Group Tax Strategy
1. Certain policies, standards and guidelines are not published externally.
2. Certain policies, standards and guidelines are available at www.schroders.com 
Additional information
Key risks and mitigations  50 
Description of key risks 53-55
Business model 14
Non-financial indicators 2
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 49
Key risks and mitigations
Our approach to risk management 
supports our strategic priorities
We are exposed to a variety of risks as a result of our global business activities. Effective risk 
management is a core competence and we actively monitor the potential impact of current and 
emerging risks. This was particularly important in 2020 given the market turbulence caused by 
Covid-19. We place significant focus on the integrity and good conduct of employees and doing the 
right thing for our stakeholders. Our risk management framework is underpinned  
by a strong control culture with clear oversight responsibilities. 
Managing risk
Internal Audit provides retrospective, independent assurance over  
The Board is accountable for risk and oversight of the risk management  the operation of controls and forms the third line of defence. The 
process. It assesses the most significant risks facing the business and  internal audit programme includes reviews of risk management 
also uses quantitative exposure measures, such as stress tests, where  processes and recommendations to improve the control environment, 
appropriate, to understand the potential impact on the business.  supplemented by external assurance from the Group’s auditors.  
Non-executive oversight of the risk management framework process  The team also carries out thematic compliance monitoring work.
with respect to standards of integrity, risk management and internal 
control is exercised through the Audit and Risk Committee, more details  We maintain comprehensive insurance cover with a broad range of 
of which are on pages 69-74. We embed risk management within all  policies covering a number of insurable events.
areas of the business at a Group and legal entity level. The Group Chief 
Executive and Group Management Committee (GMC), as the principal 
advisory committee to the Group Chief Executive, have responsibility for  Lines of defence overview
regularly reviewing the key risks we face. This includes their respective 
business areas identifying, monitoring and reporting in all legal entities  External independent assurance
on relevant risks and controls. They are also responsible for monitoring 
Three lines of defence
that individual behaviours reflect the culture and core values of the 
business. It is the responsibility of all employees to uphold the control 
culture of Schroders.  3rd line   Group  Group  Audit and 
Internal independent  Risk Management  Risk 
assurance Committee Committee Committee
The executive oversight of risk is delegated by the Group Chief 
Executive to the Chief Financial Officer. The Chief Financial Officer has 
responsibility for the risk and control framework of the Group. 
Independent monitoring and reporting of risks and controls across the 
Group and at a legal entity level is undertaken by the second line. The 
Chief Financial Officer chairs the Group Risk Committee (GRC), which  2nd line  
Control and oversight 
normally meets ten times a year. The GRC supports the Chief Financial 
functions
Officer and GMC in discharging their risk management responsibilities. 
The committee is attended by the heads of Group Risk, Compliance, 
Legal and Internal Audit, chief operating officers and chief 
administrative officers from across the business, and senior 
management from Distribution, Investment, Product and Wealth 
1st line  
Management. Other GMC members regularly attend. The GRC reviews  Business operations  
and monitors the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s risk  and support
management framework, including relevant policies and limits. It also 
reviews trends and current exposures to our key risks and considers 
issues as they arise. The GRC is supported by a number of sub- Risk appetite
committees, including the Conflicts of Interest committee and the  Risk appetite statements are set by the Board and cover all our key risks 
Group Regulatory Oversight committee, which review and challenge  (excluding strategic risk as this risk type mainly comprises factors that 
risks and report significant risk matters to the GRC. are external to our operating model). They apply to Asset Management, 
Wealth Management and the Group itself. Tailored versions of the risk 
Lines of defence
appetite statements have been created for some of our legal entities.
The first line of defence against undesirable outcomes is the business 
functions themselves and the line managers across the Group. Heads  Each risk appetite statement is supported by a number of metrics and 
of each business area take the lead role with respect to identifying  tolerances to quantify risk appetite and to enable us to provide an 
potential risks in their area and implementing and maintaining  assessment of risk position against risk appetite. Risk position versus 
appropriate controls to manage these risks, including through the Risk  appetite is formally assessed on an annual basis and is reviewed and 
and Control Assessment process. challenged by the GRC, GMC and Audit and Risk Committee prior to 
the Board.
Line management is supplemented by oversight functions, including 
Group Risk, Compliance, Legal, Governance, Finance, Tax and HR, which  The risk appetite statements and their supporting metrics and 
constitute the second line of defence. The compliance assurance  tolerances were reviewed in 2020 and a number of improvements  
programme reviews the effective operation of relevant key processes  were made. New metrics were added to reflect the changing business 
against regulatory requirements. environment and to allow a more quantified assessment of risk. 
50 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
S
tra
te
g
ic
 re
p
o
rt
Covid-19 response
Our response to the pandemic demonstrated the resilience of our employees and the strength of the infrastructure 
supporting our business processes. Our people worked extremely hard to meet our clients’ needs and our systems 
coped well. There was no significant impact on business operations despite a significant number of staff working 
remotely at various times over the year. Prior to 2020, we had already evolved our Business Continuity Strategy 
primarily to a work from home model, with an initial focus on our London office. As changes to our infrastructure 
had already been made, we were very well positioned to switch to working from home with minimal disruption.
Key highlights
Our response was governed by the Crisis Management  The delivery of the annual business continuity programme 
Team (CMT) which met regularly from January to May.   is reliant on a framework of business continuity  
A key focus of the CMT was protecting the welfare of our  co-ordinators and plan owners across the business.  
employees and ensuring we could continue to deliver the  They played a key role in our response by ensuring effective 
standard of service our clients expect. The central co-ordination of the  co-ordination of activities across the business, which included capturing 
response by the CMT, combined with the response of regional Incident  any additional technology requirements for home working and 
Management Teams and a level of office autonomy, meant we were  delivering our minimum viable presence approach (i.e. ensuring those 
able to flex our approach at a regional and office level dependent on  staff who performed critical activities which could not be undertaken 
government guidance and level of infection.  from home were in the office). 
Our systems performed well and our IT environment  We quickly identified key suppliers who, if impacted  
remained stable throughout the pandemic. In order   by Covid-19, could potentially have the most significant 
to further support colleagues who were working from   impact upon our own operations. For a six-week period,  
home, we increased our internet capacity from 2GB   we implemented daily reporting from key suppliers. Once it 
to 10GB. We also enhanced our remote working capabilities through  was established that service performance was being maintained and 
upgrading our virtual conferencing capabilities and rolling out   any potential significant risks had been mitigated, the reporting moved 
a collaboration platform.  to weekly and then monthly. 
Our Risk and Control Assessments, already a core part   We supported our employees by sending approximately 
of our operational risk framework, were key in enabling us  900 laptops, monitors and other hardware to their homes, 
to quickly assess the extent to which business processes  allowing them to maintain productivity.
and controls were impacted by the need to work from 
home, and therefore required additional or amended controls. 
Elevated liquidity risks, particularly during March 2020,  In consideration of the heightened market volatility we 
highlighted the importance of our robust fund liquidity risk  moved to more frequent monitoring of certain investment 
management framework. We were able to promptly  risk metrics and held more regular oversight meetings to 
identify, report and escalate areas where liquidity risk was  review the risk and performance of portfolios. In addition, 
heightened. We operated a cross-functional Liquidity Management  our Group Pricing Committee met regularly to consider pricing and 
Oversight meeting for information sharing, escalation of concerns and  valuation issues caused by the volatility.
resolution of issues.
We strengthened our communications to employees to  Our global offices were reconfigured to 
help them feel supported and engaged. Our internal  meet local government guidelines thereby allowing  
communications and employee interactions remained a key  staff to safely return when and where this  
focus throughout 2020. was permitted and appropriate.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 51
Key risks and mitigations continued
Group policies –  We conducted thematic investment risk reviews including active risk 
Our control framework is underpinned by a set of Group policies, which  taking in portfolios and liquidity risk management.
are reviewed annually to ensure they remain relevant. Our approach is  –  Our credit risk monitoring processes were enhanced with the 
to have simple, principles-based policies that are adopted across the  addition of a new external provider that aggregates internal credit 
Group. This means our employees are supported with clear guidance  ratings from large banks and produces consensus ratings.
on what they should and should not do, while similarly our service  –  A portal for identifying and monitoring negative news relating to 
providers are briefed on the standards we expect them to adhere to.  counterparties was implemented to strengthen our credit risk 
The Group policy framework helps our newly acquired businesses  management processes.
understand the culture of the Group and the parameters within which  –  We developed a dashboard for monitoring the governance 
we expect them to operate. arrangements associated with User Defined Tools. A User Defined 
Tool is a technology application created or modified outside the core 
2020 Developments Technology function.
Whilst Covid-19 dominated much of the year (and is covered in more 
detail on page 51), a number of other initiatives were undertaken  Risk and Control Assessment Process
during 2020 by Group Risk. Some of these are summarised below:
––   AopcAponrr lofoeno onvctriueegmnnsrsu saitedeeilox e sOtin  soIap tn arioenfepoprg parre ermtrrioeaaoaasstneistclaieih oedls  nnRtush ceerSreisdeno i cclguaiuae ngeprndhixatc  tybesirm,t ei Plwrimpetreiosree osges  ve.tnr eeaAvhsmemsatn epnemtdacnsee .rttts dow  o  toeoaf nus tch sreo uidssnrta teoart ubaow rlllise osk  hascesneay dnd b   tduoas ibtnaue islds   What parroec eosusre sk eayn db urissiknse?ss likeolWifh thohaoetd r i issak nt?hd eim inphacetrent
surveillance capabilities.
–  The Risk and Control Assessment Process (summarised in the 
diagram on the right) continues to be a key part of our operational  Risk and 
risk framework and assisted with our response to Covid-19 (further 
Control 
details are on page 51). We improved the alignment of the Risk Event  mC
–  pdoTibTfmuhhcrornooceepcuccau srAterdeomirsos evecssneironne  nasrmtcg nat teC aondpm lto ga rirooifoseet untRscv eo re iiRoese fsR kifwssms i  csekEa oake svr& nn teeath dot nnPtro  hteodcrdseehrl .ssCf vapo  oiwflerrolneimwirmttn hr oagpoa vtneerlhe cyA rerre fvsiso s gseeCrkeoenmo asaiumnsnale mgnodm  fcf eeop iemtxnret p atetri nhonfePoisedsrmruo   wmfbricirseyeeasi  nrstacne sgopac  e tnneptonh.cdly ehue isnn apertgnedcr c-oaaaettn iedod  tnb lhisyne.  e   tiigate the riskan w?e further AsPsreoscsemsesnt  Wihant  pcloanctre olts o do mwie thaivegate the risk?
–  Wpreoevri tedfwoelv iaoenslo.d pT cehhdea sElelSe aGnrg erei su kas tet otdho eflok Airt ssds afeoytr -C ttolha-eds sain yRv iresisksk t&m o Pveeenrrtsf roigisrhmkt a aasnnscdees f somrmenatl  of  rWishka at fitse trh ceo nretrsoidlsu?al
Committees.
Key risks
Assessment of key risks
We periodically assess the risks faced by our business and update the  The following Key Risks are ranked within each category based on our 
detail of the Group’s key risks. This provides us with a good  combined assessment of the impact and likelihood of each occurring 
understanding of the risk profile of the Group, enabling our risks to be  after our controls are applied.
managed effectively. We have 19 key risks across Strategic, Business 
Strategic risks Operational risks
and Operational risk categories, as shown in the table on the right and 
on pages 53-55.
1    Changing investor  11   Conduct and  
requirements regulatory
These risks have been assessed in light of the current environment 
(including Covid-19), geopolitical factors, market conditions, changing  2   Fee attrition 12  Process
client demand and regulatory sentiment. We have taken into  3   Market returns  13  Business services    
consideration the views of subject matter experts and risk owners           resilience
within the business, and the working environments faced by our  4   Business model disruption
employees around the world. We monitor internal and external  14   Information security
Business risks
environments to identify new and emerging risks. We then analyse  15  Fraud
each risk and assess how this can be managed and mitigated. 5   Reputational
16  Legal
6    Investment  
The Group determines which key risks it considers to be heightened, for  performance 17  Technology
example those that are more costly if they materialised, and we then 
undertake further work to manage these actively. When considering  7   Climate change 18  Tax
these risks, we take into account the objectives of regulators to ensure  8    Financial instrument 19   People and employment 
market integrity, good conduct, appropriate consumer protection and  practices
the promotion of competition within the industry. 9    Product
10   Business concentration
52 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
S
Key risks tra
te
g
ic
 re
p
o
rt
Strategic risks
Impact for Schroders: These risks relate to our strategy and the environment in which we operate. If these risks are not carefully  
managed, our AUM and the income we therefore receive may be lowered. Our business plans seek to address these risks by responding to 
the challenges faced and growing our assets and earnings.
Description How we manage this
1 Changing investor requirements
Client requirements are evolving rapidly. Failing to adapt or evolve  We have intensified our focus on ESG by ensuring our investment 
our business model and product range to reflect these changes  criteria includes integration of ESG into the decision process, subject 
could lead to a drop in AUM. to local requirements, and we have launched thematic products 
related to Climate and Energy Transition. We continue to expand 
This is notable in the Solvency II driven investment requirements of  our capabilities in Private Assets & Alternatives, including a majority 
clients and the move from Defined Benefit to Defined Contribution  interest in an Asian-based Real Estate business, Pamfleet. Seed 
pensions for example. capital has been deployed in 22 new funds during 2020. We carefully 
manage our cost base to reflect our clients’ changing asset 
ESG is a material part of our client considerations and we expect  allocation requirements, investing in new products where client 
climate change risks to feature more heavily in future investment  demand exists.
requirements and offerings.
2 Fee attrition
Fee attrition caused by clients allocating more of their assets to  We have continued to focus on Solutions and outcome-oriented 
passive products and a lower allocation to public markets, and a  strategies, and Private Assets & Alternatives, which diversify our fee 
smaller pool of capital allocated to active fund managers resulting in  income, increasing our AUM by £51 billion in these areas over the 
increased competition on price. year. We are also increasingly diversifying our product offering, 
supporting long-term profitability.
A move towards vertical integration can also impact revenues of 
investment managers as the pricing power may reside with the 
organisations that have the end client relationship.
3 Market returns
Our income is derived from the value of the assets we manage.  We have diversified income streams across a range of markets to 
Falling markets reduce our AUM and therefore impact revenues.  mitigate falling markets in any one area. We now have 54% of AUM 
Market falls may be exacerbated by geopolitical risks and the  from Solutions, Private Assets & Alternatives and Wealth 
currency in which the AUM is denominated. Management, up from 51% in 2019.
Current economic uncertainty with slowing global economies may  Our focus on growing our Private Assets & Alternatives product 
also impact markets. The response of central banks may have a  range allows us to have a broader range of income streams which 
dependency on fiscal measures which could impact market returns.  are less directly linked to markets. We have made key hires and 
Greater co-operation across central banks may be required, at a  management appointments in this part of the business to 
time when economies are becoming more inward looking. Capital  strengthen our leadership and drive growth in our product offering. 
investment may be targeted at domestic growth rather than being  The further development of our Wealth Management business, 
allocated to cross border initiatives. including the acquisition of Sandaire, a London-based multi-family 
office, enables us to leverage the greater longevity and higher, more 
sustainable margins that come with this business.
4 Business model disruption
Our business model could be disrupted by a range of external  We continue to deliver efficiencies and insights through technology. 
factors including technology advancements, product evolution and  Digital initiatives are in progress to improve client experience, 
market participants. engagement and servicing. We are investing in our technology 
platform to support scalability, agility in our product offering and 
We see mass customisation of products coupled with changes in  our expanding Private Assets & Alternatives business. A key focus on 
regulation such as the value assessment, requiring a response from  leveraging data by our Data Insights Unit has supported this.
asset managers, in addition to an increasing move to private markets.
Movement during the year
Increased
Decreased
Remained the same
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 53
Key risks and mitigations continued
Business risks
Impact for Schroders: In executing our strategy, a number of key risks arise that could impact our ability to attract and retain clients.  
By evolving our product offering and delivering investment performance, we have the best opportunity to be selected by clients when  
allocating assets. A failure to achieve this could lead to a decrease in AUM.
Description How we manage this
5 Reputational risk
This may arise from poor conduct, judgement or risk events due  We consider reputational risks when initiating changes to our strategy 
to weaknesses in systems or controls. The reputation of  or operating model and maintain high standards of conduct.
Schroders can be impacted by any of our key risks.
6 Investment performance risk
There is a risk that portfolios may not meet their investment  We have clearly defined investment processes designed to meet 
objectives or that there is a failure to deliver consistent  investment targets within stated parameters, which are subject to 
performance. independent review and challenge.
Oversight of both risk and performance is embedded in our business 
processes and governance.
7 Climate change risk
A failure to understand the pricing of assets affected by climate  We have developed a range of proprietary tools to better understand 
change due to declining cash flows from industries or a lower  the impacts of climate change on the portfolios we manage including a 
demand for impacted assets. This may lead to poor investment  physical risk model and a transition risk model.
decisions, more volatile pricing as asset prices adjust to reflect the 
increasing regulation of carbon emissions and a failure to offer  We assess our corporate exposure to physical climate change risks and 
climate positive products impacting our performance, brand and  that of our supply chain and we actively monitor our emissions and 
reputation. have adopted targets to reduce our carbon footprint.
8 Financial instrument risk
We face market, credit, liquidity and capital risks from the  We manage capital, liquidity and the Group’s own investments through 
instruments we use when managing AUM, as well as those  Board-set limits and in the Group Capital Committee. Equity market 
arising from holding investments where we act as principal.   risk in seed capital is hedged where it is economic and practicable to 
The impact of financial instrument risks on our business may  do so and foreign currency Group investments are hedged back to 
negatively affect our earnings (due to market, credit or liquidity  sterling. 
risk) or ability to invest in our business (due to insufficient capital).
We monitor our credit and counterparty exposure in the Group 
balance sheet, bank lending portfolios and in our client assets.
9 Product risk
There is a risk that our product offering is not suitably diversified,  Our dedicated Product and Solutions function focuses on strategy, 
or does not provide access to strategies that will help investors to  innovation and changing investor requirements.
meet their objectives. There is also the risk that products are not 
accurately described, or that they do not perform in alignment  In the first instance, identified risks are managed within the formal 
with their investment objective(s) for a sustained period. Product Governance Framework, which includes the Product Strategy 
Committee, Product Development Committee, Product Governance 
There is also the risk that product liquidity is not consistent   Committee and Capacity Committee.
with the product description, or the redemption requirements  
of investors. We have a liquidity risk management framework and monitor the 
liquidity of our products on an ongoing basis.
10 Business concentration risk
Insufficient diversification in distribution channels, products,  We have a broad range and scale of products, distribution and 
clients, markets, or income streams could pose a risk to  investment channels and our development of strategic relationships 
our business. and acquisitions enables further diversification of income streams.
54 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
S
tra
te
g
ic
 re
p
o
rt
Operational risks
Impact for Schroders: Operational risks are inherent in all activities and processes. They exist in the normal course of business and  
are heightened when we undertake changes to our organisation. When operational risk events occur, this may affect our clients and our  
ability to serve them. We may be liable for financial losses or fines, which could affect our business performance and may weaken our  
standing with stakeholders.
Description How we manage this
11  Conduct and regulatory risk
The risk of inappropriate conduct, conflicts management  We promote a strong compliance culture and seek to maintain good 
practices or behaviours negatively impacting on client outcomes  relationships with our regulators. We also encourage appropriate 
or markets and participants, or of failing to comply with existing  conduct and regulatory compliance via our conduct risk framework, 
or new regulations. This includes financial crime requirements. supported by compliance assurance programmes.
12 Process risk
The risk of failure of significant business processes, such as  Our key business processes are regularly reviewed and the risks 
mandate compliance, trade execution for investment portfolios,  assessed through the Risk and Control Assessment Process. When we 
client suitability checks, financial crime risk management and  undertake change, such as acquisitions, we assess new processes that 
asset pricing. may arise.
13 Business services resilience risk
The risk that we are unable to operate critical business services. Our crisis management, business continuity and disaster recovery 
processes are tested regularly to ensure that we can respond and 
recover from extreme events.
14 Information security risk
The risk that our technology is compromised or inadequate,  We have a dedicated Information Security function responsible for the 
resulting in the confidentiality, integrity or availability of our data  design and operation of our information security risk framework. 
or Schroders’ services being negatively impacted. Information security risk is overseen by specialists within both the 
second and third line of defence and is monitored by the Information 
Security Risk Oversight Committee.
15 Fraud risk
Fraud could arise from any attempt to defraud the firm or our  Controls are in place, which are assessed as part of the Risk and 
clients by circumventing our processes and controls. Control Assessment Process. We continue to apply particular focus to 
our payment processes.
16 Legal risk
The risk that we, our clients, suppliers or other third parties fail to  Our policies and procedures consider legal risk as part of their design. 
meet or record legal or regulatory obligations. We have an escalation process for areas of material risk and our Legal 
function supports our employees and the business.
17 Technology risk
A change or failure in technology could pose a risk to the integrity  Policies and technical standards are deployed, together with robust 
or availability of the services we offer. project and change management processes, which cover the 
assessment of business requirements, risk and scalability.
18 Tax risk
We and the funds we manage are exposed to tax compliance,  Our tax strategy sets out our approach to managing our tax affairs, 
reporting and transactional risks, which include the submission of  underpinned by a governance framework and supported by the Tax 
late or inaccurate tax returns. function, which works with management and advisers to monitor our 
position and relevant tax changes. See page 29 for further details.
19 People and employment practices risk
The inability to attract, retain or develop key employees   We have competitive remuneration and retention plans and build 
to support our business or maintain high standards in  depth and strength in our workforce. We have sustainable succession 
employment practices. and employee development processes and recruit selectively through 
our entry-level and experienced hire programmes.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 55
Viability statement
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have carried  
out a robust assessment of the key risks facing the Group and expect that Schroders plc 
will continue to be viable for at least the next five years. 
Assessment   A five-year period to December 2025 is in line with the Group’s strategic business planning and forecasting 
period. The Group’s strategic and financial planning process includes a detailed review of the business 
of prospects model and key planning assumptions. It is led by the Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer in 
conjunction with management teams, with the one-year outlook most recently updated in March 2021.  
The business planning process considers the longer-term headwinds that may materially impact the Group, 
and assesses the need for business model changes. The business plan reflects the Group’s strategy, which is 
summarised on pages 16-17.
Key assumptions underpinning the financial planning process include AUM growth from both markets and 
net new business; changes to net operating revenue margins owing to changes in business mix, planned 
business activity and industry-wide margin pressures; and additional costs comprising the expected total 
compensation cost ratio and non-compensation costs including those arising from continued investment in 
the development of the business.
Progress against financial budgets and key objectives are reviewed throughout the year by both the 
Directors and the GMC, along with periodic reviews of the capital and dividend policies.
Assessment   The assessment of the Group’s viability requires the Directors to consider the principal risks that could affect 
the Group, which are outlined on the previous pages. The Directors review the key risks regularly and 
of viability consider the options available to the Group to mitigate these risks so as to ensure the ongoing viability of 
the Group is sustained.
Stress testing is performed on the Group’s business plan, which considers the impact of a number of the 
Group’s key risks crystallising over the assessment period. This includes consideration of new and emerging 
risks, identified through the business planning process, that could have a material impact over the five-year 
planning period.
The severe but plausible stress scenarios applied to the business plan include the following factors which, 
where relevant, use assumptions more severe than the regulatory stress scenario required by the 
Prudential Regulation Authority:
–  Outflows of our AUM, or deterioration in the value of our AUM, as a result of, for example, a market 
downturn, foreign exchange movements, climate change risks or poor investment performance;
–  a significant decline in net operating revenue margins reducing projected revenues, together with an 
increase in the ratio of total costs to net income;
–  the impact of a material operational risk event which could lead to reputational damage and outflows of 
our AUM.
The stress scenarios are consistent with those used in the Group’s consolidated Internal Capital Adequacy 
Assessment Process and Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process.
Having reviewed the results of the stress tests, the Directors have concluded that the Group would have 
sufficient capital and liquid resources in the respective scenarios and that the Group’s ongoing viability 
would be sustained. In drawing this conclusion, the Directors have regard to business model changes that 
may be required given the new environments in which the Group would be operating. The stress scenario 
assumptions include maintaining the Group’s dividend policy but this and other assumptions would be 
reassessed if the circumstances determined this to be necessary over the longer term.
It is possible that a stress event could be more severe and have a greater impact than we have determined 
plausible. Actions are available that may reduce the impact of more severe scenarios, but these have not 
been considered in this viability statement.
The Directors’ current, reasonable expectation is that Schroders plc will be able to continue in operation, 
meeting its liabilities as they fall due, over a viability horizon of at least five years. The Board’s five-year 
viability and longer-term assessment is based on information known today.
56 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
S
tra
te
g
ic
 re
p
o
rt
NAVIGATING
THE FUTURE
The UK left the European Union on 31 January 2020 and entered a  We will continue to closely monitor future negotiations and regulatory 
‘transition period’ while the UK Government negotiated its future  developments with respect to financial services, including any 
relationship with the EU. On 24 December 2020, both parties  frameworks for regulatory cooperation between the UK and the EU that 
announced that they had reached agreement on a free trade  might affect our business and our clients. 
agreement, the UK-EU Trade and Cooperation Agreement, with its 
terms taking effect immediately after the transition period concluded  We have registered our Luxembourg fund ranges under the UK 
on 31 December 2020. As widely anticipated, the trade agreement does  Financial Conduct Authority’s temporary permissions regime to allow 
not make specific provision for financial services firms in the UK to  our EU based funds to continue to be offered to clients based in the UK 
continue to access the EU single market and, as a result, those firms lost  for the foreseeable future. 
those passporting rights.
Schroders was well positioned for such a no deal scenario for financial 
services. Our diversified business model and significant presence in the 
EU mean that we have been well placed without making significant 
changes to our operating models. We had obtained additional 
investment management permissions in Luxembourg to ensure that 
we can continue to offer the full range of investment services to our 
clients. We had also made some structural changes to enable us to 
continue to service our clients regardless of their geographic location. 
Our aim throughout has been to ensure that our clients receive a 
seamless service. 
Pages 1 to 57 constitute the Strategic report, which was approved by 
the Board on 3 March 2021 and signed on its behalf by:
Peter Harrison
Group Chief Executive 
3 March 2021
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 57
Board of Directors and Company Secretary
Leading a world class business
Michael Dobson Peter Harrison Richard Keers
Chairman  Group Chief Executive  Chief Financial Officer 
Appointed Chairman in April 2016, having  Appointed Group Chief Executive in April  Appointed a Director and Chief Financial 
been Chief Executive since November 2001.  2016. He was an executive Director and Head  Officer in May 2013.
He first joined the Board as a non-executive  of Investment from May 2014.
Director in April 2001. Experience: He is a chartered accountant and 
Experience: He began his career at Schroders  was a senior audit partner at 
Experience: Prior to joining Schroders he was  and subsequently held roles at Newton  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) until May 
Chief Executive of Morgan Grenfell Group  Investment Management, J.P. Morgan Asset  2013. He became a partner at PwC in 1997 
and a member of the Board of Managing  Management as Head of Global Equities and  and has 25 years’ experience in the audits of 
Directors of Deutsche Bank AG. Multi-Asset and at Deutsche Asset  global financial services groups. His 
Management as Global Chief Investment  experience includes time spent in PwC’s New 
External appointments: Member of the  Officer. He was Chairman and Chief Executive  York, Sydney, Edinburgh and London offices.
President’s Committee of the Confederation  of RWC Partners before re-joining Schroders 
of British Industry, Advisor to G3 Group. as Global Head of Equities in March 2013. External appointments: None.
Committee membership: Chairman of the  External appointments: Member of the 
Nominations Committee. Investment Association Advisory Council and 
the Impact-Weighted Accounts Initiative 
Leadership Council. He is a Director of FCLT 
Global and a member of the Advisory Board 
of Antler Global. 
Ian King Sir Damon Buffini Rhian Davies
Senior Independent Director  Independent non-executive Director  Independent non-executive Director 
Appointed Senior Independent Director in  Appointed in February 2018. Appointed in July 2015.
April 2018 having been a non-executive 
Director since January 2017. Experience: He has over 25 years’ experience  Experience: She is a chartered accountant 
in private equity, joining Schroder Ventures in  and was a partner at Electra Partners, an 
Experience: He was Chief Executive of BAE  1988. He was Managing Partner of Permira  independent private equity fund manager, 
Systems plc from 2008 to 2017 having been  from 1997 to 2007 before becoming  until June 2015, and then a Senior Adviser 
originally appointed to the BAE board as Chief  Chairman. He retired in 2015 and remains a  until March 2017. She previously worked in 
Operating Officer, UK and Rest of the World.  Senior Adviser. PwC’s audit and insolvency practice before 
Prior to this, he was Chief Executive of Alenia  joining Electra in 1992.
Marconi Systems. He also served as a  External appointments: Chair of the 
non-executive Director and Senior Independent  National Theatre and Chair of Royal  Committee membership: Chairman of the 
Director of Rotork plc until June 2014. Anniversary Trust UK. Audit and Risk Committee. Member of the 
Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
External appointments: Senior Adviser to the  Committee membership: Chairman of the 
Board of Gleacher Shacklock LLP, Chairman of  Remuneration Committee and a member of 
Senior plc, Director of High Speed Two (HS2)  the Nominations Committee.
Limited and lead non-executive Director for 
the Department of Transport.
Committee membership: Member of the 
Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
58 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
G
o
v
e
rn
a
n
c
e
Claire Fitzalan Howard Rakhi Goss-Custard Leonie Schroder
Non-executive Director Independent non-executive Director  Non-executive Director 
Appointed in April 2020. Appointed in January 2017. Appointed in March 2019.
Experience: She began her career at Kleinwort  Experience: She is an experienced executive  Experience: She has held a number of roles 
Benson, where she worked from 1982 to 1987.  in digital retailing, having spent 11 years at  in the charity sector and is currently a director 
She subsequently joined Gauntlet Insurance  Amazon. Prior to joining Amazon, she held  of the Schroder Charity Trust and a number 
Services, insurance brokers specialising in high  roles at TomTom and in management  of private limited companies. She is a 
net worth clients, where she had an executive  consultancy in the US. descendant of John Henry Schroder, 
role until 1996 and was a non-executive  co-founder of the Schroders business in 1804.
Director from 2004 until 2019. She is a  External appointments: Non-executive 
descendant of John Henry Schroder, co-founder  Director of Kingfisher plc and Rightmove plc. External appointments: Schroder Charity 
of the Schroders business in 1804. Trust and a number of private limited 
Committee membership: Member of the  companies.
External appointments: Non-executive  Nominations and Audit and Risk Committees.
Director of Caledonia Investments plc, Director  Committee membership: Member of the 
of the Schroder Charity Trust and a trustee of a  Nominations Committee.
number of other charitable foundations.
Committee membership: Member of the 
Nominations Committee.
Deborah Waterhouse Matthew Westerman
Independent non-executive Director  Independent non-executive Director
Graham Staples
Appointed in March 2019. Appointed in March 2020. Group Company Secretary
Experience: She has been the CEO of ViiV  Experience: He started his career in 1986 at  He joined Schroders in 2004. 
Healthcare, a major international business,  Credit Suisse First Boston. He subsequently  Previously, he held senior 
since 2017. ViiV Healthcare is a leading global  worked at Rothschild & Co where he became  company secretarial, compliance 
company, majority owned by GlaxoSmithKline  Managing Director and Joint Chief Executive  and business development roles 
(GSK) and focused on advancing science into  of ABN AMRO Rothschild. He joined Goldman  at NatWest, Barclays, TSB and 
HIV treatment, prevention and care. She is a  Sachs in 2000 where he was a Partner for 14  Computershare.
member of the GSK Corporate Executive Team. years. Between 2016 and 2017 he was 
Co-Head of Global Banking at HSBC.  He is responsible for the Group’s 
External appointments: Private limited  governance framework and 
companies relating to ViiV Healthcare. External appointments: MW&L Capital  advising the Board and GMC on 
Partners, Chairman of the Board of Trustees  all governance matters.
Committee membership: Member of the  of the Imperial War Museum and a 
Nominations and Audit and Risk Committees. Foundation Fellow of Balliol College, Oxford, 
Trustee of the UK Holocaust Memorial 
Foundation.
Committee membership: Member of the 
Nominations, Audit and Risk, and 
Remuneration Committees.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 59
Corporate Governance report
ENSURING
EFFECTIVE
OVERSIGHT
I am pleased to introduce our corporate governance report for 2020 in which we describe 
our governance arrangements, the operation of the Board and its Committees and how 
the Board discharged its responsibilities during the year.
2020 was a year of unprecedented challenges. The speed with which  Although the pandemic was naturally a major focus of the Board’s 
the Covid-19 crisis took hold, and its impact on the macro economy and  discussions, we continued to focus on the long term opportunities and 
financial markets, was extraordinary and required a swift response to  challenges. These strategic discussions were best held face to face so 
ensure that our business was able to continue to operate effectively.  we delayed our annual strategy meeting from May until July, with 
Throughout this Annual Report we have illustrated some of the steps  further meetings held in the Autumn. 
we took to protect clients, our employees and the interests of our  
wider stakeholders. We welcomed Matthew Westerman and Claire Fitzalan Howard to the 
Board in early 2020, both of whom are making a valuable contribution.
The Board quickly recognised that we needed to change our approach 
to ensure that we could continue to maintain effective oversight. We  The challenges posed by the pandemic have required, and continue to 
implemented regular business updates from management in addition  require, Non-executive colleagues to commit significantly more of their 
to our normal board agenda and met as a Board 19 times during the  time than usual to the Company and I would like to thank them for that 
year, in person or virtually. Standing items on our agenda included a  commitment. I would also like to pay tribute to the hard work of our 
report from the Chief Executive on how the business was operating; an  two Executive Directors, and senior management generally, in steering 
update on financial markets and their impact on clients and the funds  the Company so well through these difficult times.
we manage on their behalf; the impact on our workforce and the steps 
we were taking to facilitate working from home and protect our  Michael Dobson
employees’ wellbeing generally; and the financial impact on the  Chairman
Company’s profits and capital position.
3 March 2021
Due to Government restrictions, shareholders were unable to attend 
our Annual General Meeting in person. We nevertheless wanted to 
enable shareholders to participate as fully as possible, so we facilitated 
live attendance by telephone and gave shareholders the opportunity to 
ask questions of the Board. All presentation materials and shareholder 
questions were shown on our website.
60 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Directors are expected to attend all meetings of the Board and Committees on which they serve. Details of Board and Committee attendance are  G
included in the table below. Where a Director is unable to attend a meeting their views are sought in advance and shared with the Board. ov
e
rn
2020 Board and Committee meeting attendance an
c
Audit and Risk  Remuneration  Nominations  e
Board1 Committee Committee2 Committee
Michael Dobson3 19/19 4/6
Executive Directors
Peter Harrison 19/19
Richard Keers 19/19
Non-executive Directors
Ian King 19/19 9/9 6/6
Sir Damon Buffini4 19/19 9/9 3/6
Rhian Davies 19/19 5/5 9/9 6/6
Rakhi Goss-Custard 19/19 5/5 6/6
Claire Fitzalan Howard5 13/13 4/4
Philip Mallinckrodt6 5/6 1/2
Leonie Schroder 19/19 6/6
Deborah Waterhouse 19/19 5/5 6/6
Matthew Westerman7 17/17 4/4 1/1 4/4
1. There were five scheduled Board meetings held during the year and 14 additional meetings to consider the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, business strategy 
and specific acquisition opportunities.
2. There were four scheduled Remuneration Committee meetings held during the year and five additional meetings outlined on page 90.
3. Michael Dobson did not attend Nominations Committee meetings that discussed the Chairman’s succession.
4. Damon Buffini was unable to attend three meetings of the Nominations Committee.
5. Claire Fitzalan Howard was appointed to the Board and as a member of the Nominations Committee on 30 April 2020.
6. Philip Mallinckrodt retired from the Board on 30 April 2020. He did not attend the Nominations Committee or the Board meeting that discussed his retirement.
7. Matthew Westerman was appointed to the Board and as a member of the Nominations and Audit and Risk Committees on 9 March 2020. He joined the 
Remuneration Committee on 19 November 2020.
Compliance with the 2018 UK Corporate Governance  Board composition at 31 December 2020
Code (Code)
Throughout 2020, the Company has applied the main principles and 
provisions of the Code with the exception of Provisions 9, 19 and 32. 
Michael Dobson was not independent on appointment as Chairman in 
April 2016, and has served on the Board for more than nine years since 
he was first appointed. The Chairman’s appointment was fully explained 
in the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts and the Board confirms its 
view that the Chairman’s continued service is in the best interests of the 
Company and its stakeholders. Sir Damon Buffini was appointed as 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee on 6 November 2019, having 
served on the Committee for marginally less than the 12 months 
required under Provision 32. This was fully explained in the 2019 Annual 
Report and Accounts. 
Executive Directors  18%
Copies of the Code can be obtained from the FRC’s website at frc.org.uk. Non-independent non-executive directors  27%
Independent non-executive directors  55%
The Board and its committees
Length of tenure at 31 December 2020
The Board decided it needed to meet more frequently than usual 
during the year in order to be able to discharge its duties, due to the 
fast pace of change and disruption caused by the Covid-19 pandemic.
The Board has collective responsibility for the management, direction 
and performance of the Company. It is accountable to shareholders for 
the creation and delivery of strong, sustainable financial performance 
and long-term shareholder value. In discharging its responsibilities, the 
Board takes appropriate account of the interests of our wider 
stakeholders including clients, employees, external service providers, 
regulators and wider society. Certain decisions can only be taken by the 
Board, including decisions on the Group’s overall strategy, significant 
new business activities and the strategy for management of the Group’s 
investment capital. These are contained in the Schedule of Matters 
0-3 years  46% 6-9 years  18%
Reserved to the Board, which can be found on the Company’s Investor 
3-6 years  27% 9+ years  9%
Relations website, schroders.com/ir. 
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 61
Corporate Governance report continued
The Board has delegated specific responsibilities to Board committees,  discussion of such matters as the Chairman considers appropriate. In 
notably the Nominations Committee, the Audit and Risk Committee,  2020, the Chairman’s Committee discussed the results of the external 
and the Remuneration Committee. The minutes of committee meetings  Board evaluation, the performance of the Group Chief Executive, 
are made available to all Directors. At each Board meeting, the  acquisition opportunities and talent and succession planning.
Chairman of each committee provides the Board with an update of the 
work currently being carried out by the committee they chair.  There was one Board call during the year in January. Board calls are 
Membership of the committees is detailed in each committee’s report.  used as an additional avenue for communication that supplements the 
The committees’ terms of reference can be found on the Company’s  formal Board meeting programme. At each call, the Group Chief 
Investor Relations website. Executive and Chief Financial Officer provide updates on the Group’s 
financial performance, and an update on business issues. Due to the 
There is also a Chairman’s Committee whose membership is comprised  frequency of Board meetings from March onwards as a result of the 
of the non-executive Directors. The Chairman’s Committee is not a  pandemic, there were no further calls as the Board was being updated 
committee of the Board and serves as an informal forum for the  on key issues regularly through those meetings.
Governance framework
Board
The Board is responsible for the management, direction and performance of the Company.
Chairman Group Chief Executive Senior Independent  Non-executive Directors
The Chairman is responsible  The Group Chief Executive is  Director (SID) Non-executive Directors are 
for the leadership of the  responsible for the executive  The SID’s role is to act as a  expected to provide 
Board, ensuring its  management of the  sounding board for the  independent oversight and 
effectiveness and setting its  Company and its  Chairman, oversee the  constructive challenge and 
agenda. He is responsible for  subsidiaries. He is  evaluation of the Chairman’s  help develop proposals on 
creating an environment for  responsible for proposing  performance and serve as an  strategy, performance and 
open, robust and effective  the strategy for the Group  intermediary for the other  resources, including key 
debate and challenge. The  and for its execution. He is  Directors if necessary. He is  appointments and standards 
Chairman is also responsible  assisted by members of the  also available as an  of conduct.
for ensuring effective  GMC in the delivery of his  additional point of contact 
communication with  and the Board’s objectives  for shareholders and other 
shareholders and other  for the business. stakeholders should they 
stakeholders. wish to raise matters with 
him rather than the 
Chairman or Group Chief 
Executive. He is the 
designated non-executive 
Director responsible for 
engagement with the 
workforce as key 
stakeholders in the 
Company, in accordance 
with the Code.
Nominations Committee Audit and Risk Committee Remuneration Committee
Responsible for reviewing and  Responsible for overseeing   Responsible for the remuneration 
recommending changes to the  financial reporting, risk management  strategy for the Group, the remuneration 
composition of the Board and its  and internal controls, internal and  policy for Directors and overseeing 
Committees. external audit. remuneration firm-wide.
Chairman: Michael Dobson Chairman: Rhian Davies Chairman: Sir Damon Buffini
See page 67 for the Committee Report. See page 69 for the Committee Report. See page 75 for the Committee Report.
Group Management Committee (GMC)
The GMC comprises the senior management team and is the principal advisory committee to the Group Chief Executive.
Group Capital Committee  Group Risk Committee (GRC)
Assists the Chief Financial Officer in the deployment of operating,  Assists the Chief Financial Officer in discharging his 
seed, co-investment and investment capital. responsibilities in respect of risk and controls. The GRC has a 
number of sub-committees, which look at specific areas of risk 
including conflicts of interest.
62 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
The Board believes that it operates most effectively with an appropriate  Meeting dates Key areas considered G
balance of executive Directors, independent non-executive Directors  ov
and Directors who have a connection with the Company’s principal  March –  Wealth Management strategy ern
a
shareholder group. No individual or group of individuals is in a position  –  Slavery and Human Trafficking  nc
e
to dominate the Board’s decision-making. statement
–  Annual Report and Accounts 2019 and 
The Nominations Committee report contains more detail on our  dividend proposal
approach to Board composition. Biographies of each of the Directors  –  Board priorities 2020
are set out on pages 58 to 59.
July  –  Group strategy update
Independence (rescheduled from  –  Financial forecasts, including capital
May) –  Investment performance review
The Board remains committed to its stated policy regarding the benefits 
–  People strategy, diversity and inclusion
of an absolute majority of independent Directors. All the non-executive 
–  Acquisition proposal
Directors are independent in terms of character and judgement.
July –  Half-year results and dividend proposal
Michael Dobson, as former Chief Executive and having served more 
–  China strategy
than nine years since his first appointment, is not considered 
–  Technology strategy
independent under the Code. Claire Fitzalan Howard and Leonie 
–  ICAAP and ILAAP
Schroder are not considered independent as they are members of the 
principal shareholder group. The Nominations Committee believes the  October –  North America strategy
judgement and experience of Michael Dobson, Claire Fitzalan Howard  –  Culture, Conduct and Controls
and Leonie Schroder continue to add value to the Board and the Group.  –  Resolution and wind-down plan
The Board will therefore recommend their re-election at the 2021 AGM.
November –  Product strategy
Director appointments and time commitment –  Corporate purpose, corporate and social 
responsibility including climate change
The rules providing for the appointment, election, re-election and 
–  Recovery plan
removal of Directors are contained in the Company’s Articles of 
–  2021 budget
Association. The Company may only amend its Articles of Association by 
special resolution of the shareholders.
Throughout the year, the Board has considered workforce welfare, 
The Company has decided that all Directors should retire and stand for  external markets, the impact on our clients, the Group’s capital position, 
re-election annually, unless they are retiring from the Board. Details of  business operations and the need to keep the market updated on key 
the Directors’ length of tenure are set out on page 61. developments. The Board also continued to focus on the development 
of our overall strategy for the Group and the key individual drivers of 
Non-executive Directors’ letters of appointment stipulate that they are  growth over the next five years. Particular focus was given to the 
expected to commit sufficient time to discharge their duties. The Board  competitive environment, our clients, the evolution of our core business 
has adopted a policy that allows executive Directors to take up one  and investing for growth opportunities, including the consideration of 
external non-executive directorship. Non-executive Directors are  potential acquisitions. The Board considered the Group’s approach to 
required to notify the Chairman before taking on any additional  diversity and inclusion and how it impacts our business. 
appointments. The Board is satisfied that all Directors standing for 
re-election at the 2021 AGM continue to be effective and demonstrate  There were 14 additional Board meetings in 2020 to ensure the Board 
commitment to their respective roles. maintained effective oversight of the business during the pandemic, to 
consider the Group’s strategy and to consider specific acquisition 
For details of executive Directors’ service contracts, termination  opportunities. 
arrangements and non-executive Directors’ letters of appointment, 
please refer to our Directors’ Remuneration report from page 75. Board induction and training
The Group Company Secretary supports the Chairman and Group Chief 
Key areas of focus during the year
Executive in providing a personalised induction programme to all new 
At each scheduled Board meeting the Board discusses reports from the  Directors. This helps to familiarise them with their duties and the 
Group Chief Executive on the performance of the business, the Chief  Group’s culture and values, strategy, business model, businesses, 
Financial Officer on financial performance, the Company Secretary on  operations, risks and governance arrangements.
governance developments, and, where relevant, a report from each of 
the Board Committees. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the Board made  Following the appointment of Matthew Westerman in March and Claire 
the decision to postpone the review of the Group’s strategy originally  Fitzalan Howard in April, a comprehensive and tailored induction 
scheduled for May to July, in order that the Board could debate in  programme was provided on a virtual basis and is ongoing.
person. In addition to these regular matters, specific areas of focus by 
the Board during 2020 included: The induction process involved:
–  Meeting all members of the GMC to gain an insight into and an 
understanding of the opportunities and challenges facing their area 
of responsibility.
–  One-to-one meetings with other senior management across the 
Company, including from the first, second and third lines of defence, 
to understand the Group’s internal control and risk management 
framework.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 63
Corporate Governance report continued
The induction process is reviewed on a regular basis and is updated and  2020 Board evaluation (internal)
tailored to ensure it remains appropriate for the needs of newly  The 2020 evaluation was undertaken internally. The Chairman asked 
appointed Directors. each Director to provide a written evaluation focusing specifically on 
five key areas:
Committee-specific inductions are also arranged when Committee 
membership changes, and these induction processes are tailored to the  –  To what extent we had achieved the priorities we set ourselves at the 
skills and knowledge of the individual and the forthcoming Committee  start of 2020, recognising that Covid-19 had impacted a number of 
agenda items. our plans. 
–  How the Board and the management team performed in light of the 
Induction and briefing meetings are generally opened up to all  pressures brought on by the Covid-19 crisis.
Directors to attend on an optional basis. –  Whether the Committees had discharged their responsibilities 
effectively and the quality of the reporting to the Board.
The Board believes that the ongoing development and briefing of  –  The induction process for new Directors.
Directors is an important aspect of the Board’s agenda. Briefing  –  The areas of focus for the Board in 2021.
sessions are arranged each year which, during 2020, included 
presentations on Schroders Personal Wealth, our joint venture with  Directors were also asked to provide any further comments they wished 
Lloyds Banking Group, Group Capital Management and Data Insights  to on any aspect of Board, Committee and Director performance.
on how data can drive alpha. Members of the Board Committees also 
receive regular updates on technical developments at scheduled  The overall conclusion was that the Board and Committees performed 
Committee meetings.  well in 2020. The regular meetings held throughout the year 
contributed to the Board working effectively together. Most of the 
2019 Board evaluation priorities set for 2020 had been achieved despite the Covid crisis, 
The 2019 Board evaluation was facilitated externally by Independent  although there was a recognition that the Board should revisit some of 
Board Evaluation (IBE). They have no other connection with the  the areas reviewed in 2020 to gain a broader and deeper 
Company.  understanding of them. The key area of focus for all Directors was the 
Group’s strategy. There was a clear feeling that the Board and the 
A number of recommendations were put forward by IBE and the  executives had responded well to the Covid crisis. The Company’s 
following were agreed by the Board. performance at an extremely challenging time was seen as vindicating 
the work of the Board and the Committees in 2020 and in previous 
–  Reviewing the induction programme for new Directors, aligning it to  years. There was a high degree of confidence in the work of the 
the forward calendar of Board topics wherever possible and  Remuneration Committee and the Audit and Risk Committee and the 
incorporating other suggestions to help them get up to speed on  reporting to the Board was of high quality. The Nominations Committee 
Board culture and practices as soon as possible. was seen to have performed well in bringing on the new Directors in 
–  Increasing the amount of informal time the Board spends together  2020. In terms of the induction process, this had had to be undertaken 
to help new members to get to know their colleagues. remotely rather than face to face as normal, which was clearly 
–  Developing a programme of informal meetings with key high- sub-optimal. 
potential executives in tandem with the succession plan, to get to 
know them better over time. Priorities for 2021
–  Including more competitor information and a stronger customer  In light of the findings of the 2020 evaluation and the conclusions of a 
lens in Board discussions. Chairman’s Committee discussion on priorities, the Board agreed a set 
–  Updating the Board skills matrix to guide future appointments, with  of high level objectives for 2021 and these include:
the focus on creating alignment between the skills of the Board and 
the strategy. –  Establishing clear KPIs for the most important financial and strategic 
–  Prioritising asset management and breadth of plc experience in any  measures of performance and reviewing them regularly against 
forthcoming non-executive recruitment processes and encouraging  budget and five year plans.
executive Directors to find appropriate and non-conflicting non- –  Agreeing a five year strategic plan with a particular focus on organic 
executive board roles with another listed company. growth opportunities and a detailed review of inorganic 
opportunities.
These recommendations were followed through during the course  –  Focusing on senior management talent and succession planning.
of 2020 or plans were put in place where not completed due to  –  Reviewing all key business areas.
the pandemic. –  Reviewing investment performance in key asset classes.
–  Reviewing all acquisitions made in the past five years.
Group Company Secretary
All Directors have access to the advice and support of the Group 
Company Secretary and his team. Through him Directors can arrange 
to receive additional briefings on the business, external development 
and professional advice independent of the Company, at the 
Company’s expense.
64 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Stakeholder interests and engagement
In discharging their section 172 duties the Directors have regard to the factors set out on page 33 and any other factors considered relevant to the 
decision being made, such as the interests of employees and the views of regulators. The Directors acknowledge that every decision made will not 
necessarily result in a positive outcome for all stakeholders. By considering the Company’s purpose, vision and values together with its strategic 
priorities and having a process in place for decision making, the Board does, however, aim to make sure that its approach to decision-making and 
consideration of stakeholder interests is consistent.
G
The examples provided below and on page 66 show how the Board considered the matters set out in section 172 in respect of some of the key  ov
e
decisions made during 2020. More information on our methods of engagement with our key stakeholders and further information on how their  rn
a
interests have been considered during the year are set on pages 32 to 33.  n
c
e
Engagement through our Investor Relations  Engagement and communication at the AGM
programme  The primary means of communicating with shareholders is 
We continued to operate a complete Investor Relations  through the AGM, the Annual Report and Accounts, full-year  
programme during 2020, even though much of our activity had to  and half-year results and related presentations. All of these are 
adapt to an online environment. The Group Chief Executive and  available on the Company’s website and the Annual Report and 
Chief Financial Officer met with a number of our major  Accounts is posted to all shareholders who elect to receive it.  
shareholders to discuss our results and strategy for driving future  The Group’s website also contains information on the business  
growth. Investor Relations also led meetings with continental  of the Company, corporate governance, all regulatory 
European investors and Schroders was represented at a number of  announcements, key dates in the financial calendar and other 
industry conferences. important shareholder information.
To ensure that the Board maintained an understanding of the  We consider the AGM as an important opportunity to meet with 
views of our major shareholders, we again commissioned an  shareholders, hear their views and answer their questions about the 
independent investor perception study, following the last investor  Group and its business. As we were unable to hold a physical AGM in 
study in 2018. A third party provider conducted in-depth interviews  2020, we organised a conference call which enabled any shareholder 
with 12 of the Company’s largest shareholders in the UK and North  to join and ask questions of the Board. For shareholders who wished 
America. These interviews covered shareholder views on the  to ask a question but were unable to join us on the day, we offered 
Group’s results, strategy, future prospects, competitive positioning  the option to send questions in advance. After the meeting the 
and quality of senior management. The findings were then  website was updated with a summary of the presentations and the 
presented to the GMC and the Board.  question and answer session. 
The Group is also planning two capital markets days for the 
investor community in 2021, following the last event in 2019. The 
event will look to provide the investment community with a deeper 
understanding of our strategic objectives, as well as access to 
senior management responsible for delivering them.
Remuneration policy
We consulted with our major shareholders ahead of proposing a new remuneration policy at the AGM in 2020. The engagement process 
enabled the Board and senior management to understand concerns and create alignment across stakeholder groups. Our remuneration 
principles are designed to promote the long-term sustainable success of the Group in the interests of all stakeholders, and following our 
consultation process we received a vote of 97.89% in favour of the revised policy at the AGM. 
Communication and engagement with employees 
Ian King, the Senior Independent Director, is the designated non-executive Director responsible for gathering workforce feedback.
Ian chairs the Global Employee Forum meetings to discuss directly with employees key issues relating to the business and our employees and to 
report views back to the Board. The Forum met twice in 2020, in April and October. 
From the April meeting feedback from the Forum was that the Company’s actions in the Covid-19 crisis showed that staff were valued and that the 
Company was taking a very positive stance on corporate responsibility issues. The various communications, including the weekly podcasts, had been 
well received in particular. The Forum had been interested in how the Board had been operating during the crisis and how we would be getting back 
to a ‘business as usual’ status. The Forum had also asked about Board succession, the AGM in the lockdown and remuneration and in particular 
whether we would be able to retain talent should results be depressed by the impact of Covid. Ian had given insights into how the Board addressed 
all of these issues and the information had been well received by Forum members. 
At the October meeting the focus remained on the impact of the pandemic. The Forum felt that the Company had responded well, was communicating 
with and was compassionate towards employees. There remained a very positive view of the Company. There was significant discussion on the blurring 
of home and business boundaries during the crisis and a strong recognition that everyone was dealing with different challenges. The major change 
since the last Forum was one of increased fatigue across the workforce and uncertainty over the future, especially regarding returning to the office. The 
provision of a safe working environment was something that the Company took very seriously because we recognised that not all our people felt 
comfortable or could work from home. The Forum also discussed many of the issues the Board was considering, including our investment in 
technology which enabled effective working in the pandemic; the resilience of our business model and the benefits of diversity; the increasing 
importance of Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) issues and how these contribute to our wider purpose, including the decision not to take any 
government assistance or make any redundancies resulting from the pandemic; and the rationale for continuing to pay dividends during the pandemic. 
The Board has found this additional feedback from our employees extremely valuable in terms of its own consideration of the issues facing the 
business and will continue to engage via the Forum in 2021.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 65
Corporate Governance report continued
Stakeholder interests and engagement
Acquisitions  Response to the Covid-19 pandemic
The Board believes that, in line with strategy, investing for   The Board met 19 times in 2020, 14 of which were additional 
growth is in the best interest of all stakeholders and has  meetings to consider, amongst other matters, the Group‘s 
continued to examine potential acquisitions as one avenue   response to the challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic, and 
in pursuit of this goal. how best to meet these challenges in the interests of 
stakeholders. The Board identified a number of key priorities, 
Sandaire including the welfare of our workforce, the impact on our clients 
The Board considered the acquisition of Sandaire, a London  of a volatile external market and the performance of our funds, 
based multi-family office with £2.4 billion of discretionary assets  alongside the Group’s capital position, business operations and 
under management, as part of the strategy of expansion by the  the need to keep the market updated of any key developments.
Group’s Wealth Management business. The Board agreed this 
acquisition would contribute towards Schroders’ strategic  The Board reviewed the impact of our workforce transitioning to 
priorities of expanding the Wealth Management business,  working from home, the resilience of our technology platforms 
providing closer relationships with end clients, targeting markets  and key counterparty risk. It was agreed that an increased 
with greater longevity and establishing Cazenove Capital as a  programme of communication was essential, both to the 
leader in the UK’s multi-family office space. workforce and our regulators, and that the welfare of the 
workforce was paramount to business performance. The Board 
When deciding to proceed with the acquisition the Board  considered the payment of the 2019 final dividend, taking into 
considered the interests of a number of key stakeholders. In  account the Group’s financial position and an external 
addition senior management held engagement meetings with  environment of approximately one third of the FTSE 100 
key stakeholders. The subsequent review of that engagement by  companies announcing they would defer, cut or cancel their 
the Board confirmed that there was both a good cultural fit for  dividends in light of the crisis. The Board concluded that the 
employees and that the acquisition would promote the Group’s  dividend should be paid in full and that this decision was 
strategy. The impact of the transaction on Sandaire’s clients was  supported by the Group’s financial position. The executive 
considered, including the Group’s ability to design future products  Directors and senior management engaged with the PRA and FCA 
to meet their requirements, by utilising the expertise of the wider  to demonstrate the resilience of the Group and its ability to pay 
Group in Private Assets & Alternatives. Sandaire’s clients will also  the final dividend. The Board also considered the interests of 
benefit from the integration of the business into Schroders’  shareholders and pension funds, who would likely experience a 
operational platform and wider range of investment capabilities.  fall in dividend income from their other investments. This decision 
The interests of Sandaire’s employees were also of key  was in line with the Board’s policy of providing shareholders with 
importance as upon completion, a number of employees   a progressive and sustainable dividend.
from Sandaire joined our Wealth Management business and will 
be key to driving the integration, future growth and success of  During the early stages of the pandemic, the Board considered 
the business.  the impact of the Group’s charitable giving, and agreed it was 
appropriate to increase matched giving significantly to support a 
The acquisition was subject to approval by the FCA, therefore  range of Covid-19 related charitable causes. In addition, the 
engagement with them was paramount. In addition, there was  Board unanimously agreed to donate 25% of their fees and 
engagement with LBG who hold a minority stake in our UK  salaries to charity for a period of three months. The executive 
Wealth Management business. Directors volunteered to waive the value of their 2020 LTIP awards.
Pamfleet In November 2020, the Board unanimously agreed a 50% 
The other major acquisition undertaken during 2020 was the  increase in the budget for charitable giving. This allows us to 
acquisition of a majority stake in Pamfleet, an independent,  sustain employee matched giving and develop long-term 
employee  owned Asian real estate manager with focus in Hong  partnerships with charities around the world. The Board agreed 
Kong, Shanghai and Singapore. that this was an important step given the global impact of 
Covid-19 on charities and society as a whole.
The Board is aware of the appetite of our clients for Private Assets 
& Alternatives products, therefore growing our capability in that 
area was a key consideration. The acquisition offered the 
opportunity for continued growth of the Group’s Private Assets & 
Alternatives business and achieving access to the Asian real estate 
market where the Group historically had little penetration. 
Stakeholder engagement was carried out by senior management 
from our Private Assets & Alternatives business, and this included 
discussions with Pamfleet’s management to assess their cultural 
fit with Schroders. The engagement showed that cultural 
alignment was strong, with Pamfleet having a hands-on 
approach, which added value to their investments, generating 
performance in excess of their peer group. Following that 
engagement the structure of the deal was geared to  
incentivise growth, with Pamfleet’s owners retaining a 49%  
stake in the business.
66 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Nominations Committee report
Benefitting from diversity
G
o
v
e
Committee membership rn
a
–  Michael Dobson (Chairman) nc
e
–  Sir Damon Buffini
–  Rhian Davies
–  Claire Fitzalan Howard (from 30 April 2020)
–  Rakhi Goss-Custard
–  Ian King
–  Philip Mallinckrodt (until 30 April 2020)
–  Leonie Schroder
–  Deborah Waterhouse 
–  Matthew Westerman (from 9 March 2020)
See page 61 for meeting attendance.
Responsibilities of the Nominations 
Committee 
I am pleased to present the Nominations Committee report for 2020.
The Committee is responsible for keeping under review the 
composition of the Board and its Committees and for 
Two new non-executive Directors joined the Board in 2020. Matthew 
ensuring appropriate executive and non-executive Director 
Westerman was appointed on 9 March and Claire Fitzalan Howard was 
succession plans are in place.
appointed on 30 April at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting. 
We continue to maintain a majority of independent Directors in line 
The Committee’s terms of reference are available on the 
with our policy, and we now have an almost equal balance between 
Company’s Investor Relations website at schroders.com/ir.
men and women on the Board. 
Biographical details and experience of the Committee 
We benefit from the diverse experience of our non-executive Directors, 
members are set out on pages 58 and 59.
the Board is well positioned to take the business forward and all 
Directors are making a significant contribution to our deliberations. 
In November, Matthew Westerman joined the Remuneration  Policy on Board Diversity
Committee bringing the membership of the Committee to four.   The Board recognises the importance of diversity and that it is a wider 
His long experience in financial services is particularly relevant to  issue than gender and ethnicity. 
that Committee.
We look for diversity of skills, experience and background, which is 
We continue to review succession in relation to senior management  important for an effective Board and management team, and this will 
and non-executives. In that context, having overseen significant  continue to be the primary criterion by which we select candidates. 
changes to the Board over the last few years in terms of its composition 
and how it operates, I asked Ian King last year, in his capacity as Senior  The Board fully understands the importance of increasing gender 
Independent Director, to lead the Committee in taking forward plans  diversity and committed to having a minimum of 33% of Board 
for my own succession as Chairman. Ian’s update on the process is  positions held by women by 2020. Currently women comprise 45%  
included in this report. of the Board. We intend only to use the services of executive search 
firms which have signed up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct on 
Directors standing for re-election
Gender Diversity. 
The Committee agreed that all Directors standing for re-election 
continue to make a valuable contribution to the Board’s deliberations  Additional information on diversity and inclusion within the business 
and recommends their re-election. can be found in our strategic report.
As required by the UK Listing Rules, the appointment of independent 
Directors must be approved by a simple majority of all shareholders 
and by a simple majority of the independent shareholders. Further 
details are set out in the 2021 Notice of AGM.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 67
Nominations Committee report continued 
Evaluating the performance of the Committee
The internal evaluation process for 2020 is set out in detail on page 64.
Priorities for 2021
During 2021, we will continue to review Board composition and 
succession planning for senior management and non-executive 
Directors. Ian King will continue the process of finding my successor as 
Chairman.
Michael Dobson
Chairman of the Nominations Committee
3 March 2021
The process of succession to the Chairman
In the 2019 Annual Report, Michael Dobson said that, having 
overseen significant change to the composition of the Board and 
how it operates, he thought the time was right to ask me to begin 
the process of identifying his successor as Chairman. 
In May, I agreed with the Nominations Committee a process for 
identifying Michael’s successor. The first step was selecting and 
appointing an external search firm to assist in identifying potential 
candidates. Following a competitive selection process we appointed 
Russell Reynolds Associates. A formal candidate profile was drawn 
up and agreed with the Nominations Committee and Russell 
Reynolds produced a long list of potential candidates which we 
subsequently narrowed down to a high quality shortlist. I met all of 
those on the shortlist, but only virtually as a result of the restrictions 
imposed by the Covid-19 pandemic.
At our meeting in November, the Nominations Committee, chaired 
by me and without Michael being present, discussed the succession 
process in detail. Whilst good progress had been made, critical 
factors such as the current availability of candidates as well as 
restrictions on our ability to engage with them in person because of 
the pandemic, have impacted timelines. We therefore decided to 
extend the process. 
The Nominations Committee is grateful that Michael has agreed to 
defer his retirement from the Board until a successor is in place, 
particularly given the importance of maintaining stability as we 
manage the impact of the pandemic on the Company. We will 
continue the process and make an announcement in due course, 
with the candidate succeeding Michael once an orderly handover 
has been completed.
Ian King
Senior Independent Director
3 March 2021
68 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Audit and Risk Committee report 
Adapting and evolving to meet new 
challenges
G
o
v
e
Committee membership  rn
a
–  Rhian Davies (Chairman)  nc
e
–  Rakhi Goss-Custard 
–  Deborah Waterhouse 
–  Matthew Westerman (from 9 March 2020) 
See page 61 for meeting attendance.
Responsibilities of the Audit  
and Risk Committee
The principal role of the Committee is to assist the Board  
in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities in relation to 
financial reporting, financial controls and audit, risk and 
internal controls.
All members of the Committee are independent non-
I am pleased to present the Committee’s report for the year ended  executive Directors. Biographical details and the experience 
31 December 2020. The Committee plays a key role in overseeing   of Committee members are set out on pages 58 and 59. 
the integrity of the Company’s financial statements and the   The Board has determined that, by virtue of their previous 
robustness of the Group’s systems of internal control and financial   experience gained in other organisations, members 
and risk management. collectively have the competence relevant to the sector in 
which the Group operates. In addition, the Board considers 
The Committee is grateful for the support of management and Ernst &  that Rhian Davies, a chartered accountant, has the recent 
Young (EY) as external auditor in promoting the integrity of the Group’s  and relevant financial experience required to chair 
financial results. We welcome the FRC’s discussion paper on the future  the Committee.
of corporate reporting, with which we have engaged and will continue 
to do so as the conversation evolves. The Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer 
attended all meetings at the invitation of the Chairman of 
During 2020, the Committee continued to focus on its responsibility for  the Committee. Other regular attendees who advised the 
the monitoring and oversight of the Group’s control environment and  Committee were the Group Financial Controller, the heads 
system of internal controls and the Group’s management of risk and  of Compliance, Risk and Internal Audit and the General 
compliance related activities particularly in light of the stresses placed  Counsel. Other members of senior management were also 
on the business by the Covid-19 pandemic. As part of this work, the  invited to attend as appropriate. The Chairman of the 
Committee considered the Group’s operational resilience and risk and  Wealth Management Audit and Risk Committee (WMARC), 
control assessments, in addition to the ICAAP, ILAAP, wind down plan,  who is an independent non-executive Director of Schroder 
and various operational stress scenarios which had been updated to  & Co. Limited, attended one meeting of the Committee and 
take into account the impact of the pandemic to support the Board’s  provided an update to each meeting on matters related to 
conclusions on the viability statement set out on page 56. the Wealth Management business.
The Committee continues to review culture and conduct risk in the  Representatives from EY, including Julian Young, lead audit 
Group and assesses the ongoing development of Schroders’ conduct  partner for the 2020 financial year, attended all of the 
programme designed to identify emerging trends and heightened risk  Committee’s scheduled meetings. During 2020, two private 
issues. Culture and conduct risk is informed by a number of metrics,  meetings were held with the external auditor without 
including conduct risk reports, employee opinion surveys and oversight  management present. Private meetings were also held with 
by the second and third line of defence functions. The Committee also  the Chief Financial Officer and the heads of the Compliance, 
received an update on people and employment practices risk and we  Risk and Internal Audit functions. These meetings provided 
believe that Schroders’ conduct risk framework is well placed against  an opportunity for any matters to be raised confidentially.
regulatory standards. 
The Committee’s responsibilities include reviewing the 
The Committee received briefings on business topics during the year  half-year and full-year results and the Annual Report and 
including Liability Driven Investment risk management and an update  Accounts before recommending them to the Board for 
on operational risk capital modelling in support of the Group ICAAP.  approval. The Committee’s responsibilities also include 
oversight of the effectiveness of the external audit, the 
independence of the external auditor and recommending 
I am grateful to all members of the Committee for their support in 2020 
to the Board the appointment of the external auditor. 
and I look forward to continuing our work in 2021.
Providing oversight of the external auditor also supports 
Rhian Davies the Committee’s responsibilities with respect to the content 
Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee and integrity of financial reporting, the appropriateness of 
accounting estimates and judgements, and the 
3 March 2021  effectiveness of the financial control framework. 
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 69
Audit and Risk Committee report continued
The Committee’s primary activities are the oversight of:
Financial reporting, financial controls and audit Risk and internal controls
– The content and integrity of financial and Pillar 3 reporting – The Group’s risk and control framework and whistleblowing 
– The appropriateness of accounting estimates and judgements procedures and the financial crime framework
– The effectiveness of the financial control framework – The Group’s ICAAP, ILAAP, wind down plan, risk appetite and 
– The effectiveness of the external auditor the recovery plan and resolution pack
– The independence of the external auditor – The Group’s regulatory compliance processes and procedures 
– The recommendation to the Board of the appointment of the  and its relationships with regulators and compliance 
external auditor monitoring
– The Group’s Internal Audit function
– The Group’s legal risk profile and disputes
– Emerging and thematic risks that may have a material impact 
on the Group’s operations in the future
Key areas of focus during the year
The table below summarises the key issues that the Committee considered at each of its meetings during 2020. At each quarterly meeting, the 
Committee receives updates from Internal Audit, Compliance, Risk, Legal and External Audit covering ongoing projects, the key issues that have arisen 
since the prior meeting and reviews a dashboard of metrics in place for monitoring key risks.
Financial reporting,  
Meeting financial controls and audit Risk and internal controls
March – 2019 Annual Report and Accounts, including  – Report from the WMARC Chairman
financial estimates and judgements, oversight  – Key risks and risk management framework
of the external auditor and audit effectiveness  – Internal Audit control framework review
and governance considerations – Contingency planning for Covid-19
– Going concern and viability statement
– Pillar 3 regulatory disclosures
– Internal controls update
May – External audit plan, including key audit matters  – Business services resilience 
– Quality and effectiveness of EY’s 2019 audit – Outsourced providers
– Financial crime and anti-money laundering review
– MiFID II transaction reporting 
– Multi-asset update
– Management response to Covid-19
July – Half-year results, including the impact of  – ICAAP and ILAAP
Covid-19 on the financial results and control  – Key risks
environment and consideration of significant  – Risk and control assessments
accounting estimates and judgements – Review of client on-boarding processes and ongoing 
– Other accounting and governance  client procedures
considerations
September – Tax strategy – Business integration review
– Group resolution process
– Group wind down plan
– Whistleblowing
– Culture and conduct risk oversight
– LIBOR transition review
November – Internal controls update – Information and cyber security review
– Accounting policies and key areas of  – Technology risk 
judgement – Key risk review
– Policies for safeguarding the independence of  – Insurance review
the external auditor – Group Recovery Plan
– Conflicts of interest update
– 2021 Internal Audit and Compliance testing plans
– Global operating strategy update
70 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Significant accounting estimates and judgements
G
o
The preparation of the financial statements requires the application of certain estimates and judgements. The material areas of either estimation   v
e
or judgement are set out in the note on the presentation of the financial statements on pages 161 and 162. Each of these areas is considered by   rn
a
the Committee based on reports prepared by Finance. EY consider each estimate and judgement and present their conclusions to the Committee.   nc
e
The significant estimates and judgements considered in respect of the 2020 financial statements and the agreed action by the Committee are 
summarised below. 
Significant estimates and judgements Action and conclusion
Carried interest
The Group recognises carried interest from its Private Assets &  The Committee received a report from Finance, which reviewed the 
Alternatives business area. This revenue stream is dependent on the  inputs for estimating the amounts receivable and payable in respect 
future value of certain investments that may not crystallise until an  of carried interest. The Committee considered the judgement applied 
uncertain date in the future. The Group is contractually committed   in determining the principal assumptions and the sensitivity of the 
to make payments based on a relevant proportion of carried interest  relevant balances to those assumptions.
received to various parties, including as part of deferred 
consideration arrangements. The Committee discussed the accounting for carried interest with EY 
and considered the findings from their audit work. Once the 
For financial reporting purposes, the Group is required to estimate  Committee was satisfied with the estimates and judgements applied, 
the value of carried interest receivable, in accordance with the  the estimated carrying values were approved.
requirements of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers; and 
the fair value of related amounts payable based on the requirements  The Committee considered the disclosures presented in respect of 
of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments. 2020 and concluded that they were appropriate.
The key inputs used in determining carried interest comprised the  
fair value of the relevant assets on which carried interest may be 
earned, future growth rates, the expected realisation dates and the 
discount rates.
Please refer to note 2 for the estimates and judgements made in respect of carried interest receivable and amounts payable in respect of carried interest
Pension schemes
The Group’s principal defined benefit pension scheme is in respect of  Finance provided the Committee with a report that included the key 
certain UK employees and former employees (the Scheme). The  financial assumptions, which had been applied by the independent 
Scheme was closed to future accrual on 30 April 2011 and, as at 31  qualified actuaries, Aon Hewitt Limited, to determine the Scheme 
December 2020, had a funding surplus. The pension obligation, which  surplus. EY’s report set out their conclusions on the pensions surplus. 
was valued as £909.0 million at the year end, is estimated based on a  The Committee considered the proposed assumptions and was 
number of assumptions, including mortality rates, future investment  satisfied that the estimates were appropriate.
returns, interest rates and inflation. The Scheme’s assets are invested 
in a portfolio designed to generate returns that closely align with 
known cash flow requirements and to hedge the interest rate and 
inflation risks.
Please refer to note 25 for more information on the estimates and judgements made in respect of the Scheme
Presentation of profits
The Consolidated income statement separately presents exceptional  The Committee considered, and was satisfied with, the continued 
items. This presentation is permitted by accounting rules for specific  presentation of exceptional items within a separate column in the 
items of income or expense that are considered material. This  Consolidated income statement. This presentation is considered 
presentation involves judgement to identify the items that warrant  appropriate as it provides a transparent view of certain items and the 
specific disclosure in accordance with accounting standards. underlying performance of the business. EY’s report set out their 
conclusions on the presentation of profits. For 2020, exceptional items 
principally comprised costs associated with acquisitions including 
amortisation of acquired intangible assets and certain one-off costs 
relating to the Group’s property estate. 
Please refer to note 1b for more information on exceptional items
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 71
Audit and Risk Committee report continued
Financial reporting and financial controls Assessment of audit quality and effectiveness
The Committee reviews whether suitable accounting policies have been  The Committee is responsible for evaluating the performance of the 
adopted and whether management have made appropriate estimates  external auditor. In March 2020, ahead of the consideration of the 2019 
and judgements, including those summarised on page 71. The  Annual Report and Accounts, the Committee received initial feedback 
Committee is also required to report to shareholders on the process it  on the conduct of the 2019 audit, which identified no significant areas of 
followed in its review of significant estimates and judgemental issues  concern. A full assessment of the external auditor was carried out by 
that it considered during the year, as set out on pages 161 and 162.  way of a questionnaire prepared in accordance with the FRC’s guidance 
and completed by key stakeholders. Interviews with senior managers 
Financial reporting is reliant on there being an appropriate financial  and Group Finance were also held. The findings of the questionnaire 
control environment. The Committee receives reports on the existing  were presented to the Committee in May 2020. EY generally scored 
control environment as well as plans to enhance controls in the future,  highly in the auditor effectiveness questionnaire and were assessed to 
along with progress made against previous planned changes. The  have improved in the second year of their audit. Areas of improvement 
reports provide a comprehensive summary of the controls that exist  were identified and discussed with EY in advance of the 2020 audit. 
across the Finance function globally and support the Group’s Risk and 
Control assessments. For more details, see page 50. In 2020, the  The Committee reviewed EY’s transparency report and discussed the 
reports continued to focus on the integration of acquired businesses  findings from the EY audit quality inspection report published by the 
and included a review on the impact of Covid-19 and the revised  FRC and the impact on the Schroders audit plan.
working practices adopted by the Group to enable it to operate during 
the pandemic. In addition, the Committee reviews the Group’s tax  In March 2021, ahead of the consideration of the 2020 Annual Report 
strategy annually, which is discussed with the external auditors. For  and Accounts, the Committee received initial feedback on the conduct 
more details see page 29. of EY’s 2020 audit, which identified no significant areas of concern. The 
detailed assessment of EY’s 2020 audit will be considered by the 
The financial control environment is also subject to audit procedures by  Committee at its May 2021 meeting with any findings implemented for 
both the Group’s internal and external auditors. The Committee  the 2021 audit. 
considered that an effective system of internal controls had been in 
place during the course of 2020. Independence and non-audit services
The Committee has responsibility for monitoring the independence and 
The Committee conducted an in-depth review of the Group’s financial  objectivity of the external auditor. Since their appointment, EY have 
projections and the application of stress scenarios with particular  continued to confirm their independence during 2020 and prior to 
attention paid to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, so that the  issuing their opinion on the Annual Report and Accounts. No 
Board can make the viability statement, as set out on page 56,   Committee member has a connection with the external auditor.
and to support the going concern basis of preparation of the  
financial statements.  A key factor in ensuring auditor independence is the Committee’s 
consideration of the provision of certain non-audit services by EY. The 
A key focus of the Committee is its work in assisting the Board in  Committee maintains a policy on the engagement of the auditor for the 
ensuring that the Annual Report and Accounts, when taken as a whole,  provision of non-audit services to safeguard their independence and 
is fair, balanced and understandable and assessing whether it provides  objectivity. This policy is reviewed annually and takes account of 
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s  relevant regulatory restrictions and guidance in the jurisdictions in 
position and performance, business model and strategy. The  which the Group operates, including those in the UK. The policy 
Committee considered the key messages communicated in the 2020  prohibits the provision of certain non-audit services and contains rules 
Annual Report and Accounts, as well as the information provided to the  regarding the Committee approving permitted non-audit services. In 
Committee and the Board as a whole during the year.  March 2020, the Committee considered the FRC’s revisions to the Ethical 
Standard that governs auditor independence and approved changes to 
The Committee, having completed its review, recommended to the  the policies regarding the provision of services by the external auditor.
Board that, when taken as a whole, the 2020 Annual Report and 
Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the  Details of the total fees paid to EY are set out in note 4b to the accounts. 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s position  The policy on non-audit services restricts the appointment of EY to the 
and performance, business model and strategy. provision of services that are closely related to the audit. Other services, 
where they are not prohibited, may also be considered but these will 
Oversight of the external auditor not normally be approved by the Committee. Certain services that are 
The Committee places great importance on the quality, effectiveness  provided to the Group are closely related to the audit but are not 
and independence of the external audit process. The Committee  required by regulation. The Committee considers that these services 
oversees the relationship with EY including safeguarding independence,  are most appropriately performed by the Group’s external auditor as 
approving non-audit fees and recommending their appointment at  they support the statutory audit as well as providing the external 
the AGM. auditor with relevant insights on aspects of the business, although they 
are not necessarily directly related to the financial statements.
The external audit was last put out to tender in 2016, with EY replacing 
PwC as the Group’s auditor for the financial year commencing 1 January  Non-audit fees, excluding audit-related assurance services required 
2018. The next external audit tender will take place within 10 years of  under regulation, equated to 15% of audit fees (2019: 16%).
their appointment and the audit partner will be rotated within five years 
in line with requirements. The external auditor attends all the  During 2020, non-audit services mainly comprised assurance services in 
Committee’s scheduled meetings and the Committee holds private  respect of controls reports and regulatory reporting normally conducted 
meetings with the external auditor without management present.  by the Group’s external auditor. These services are assurance in nature 
The Committee confirms that the Company has complied with the  and are not considered to present a risk to independence.
provisions of the Competition and Markets Authority Order 2014 
relating to the UK audit market for large companies throughout the 
year under review and as at the date of this report.
72 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Auditor oversight conclusion
G
The Committee is satisfied with the work of EY and that they are  Information and cyber security ove
objective and independent. Accordingly, the Committee has  rn
Information and cyber security has been a key area of focus   a
recommended to the Board that a resolution be put to the 2021 AGM  for the Committee for a number of years but during 2020   nce
for the reappointment of EY as external auditor, and the Board has 
the Covid-19 pandemic created an environment where there 
accepted this recommendation.
was increased opportunity for cyber attacks and fraud.  
The sophistication of attacks continues to increase with 
Risk and internal controls
attackers using a wide variety of tactics to target the Group, 
The Board has overall responsibility for the Company’s system of 
therefore the Information Security and Cyber Security team 
internal controls, the ongoing monitoring of risk and internal control 
have been vigilant in protecting the Group and its clients 
systems and for reporting on any significant failings or weaknesses. The 
against these attacks.
system of controls is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk 
of failure to achieve the Group’s strategic objectives and can only 
A key focus during 2020 was the work undertaken to carry out 
provide reasonable assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
the recommendations made by PricewaterhouseCoopers 
The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for 
(PwC) in their external review carried out in 2019. The 
monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the risk and internal 
in-sourcing of the Security Operations Centre was completed 
control framework.
and in addition management has focused on the enhancement 
of firewalls and rolling out additional training for employees in 
On behalf of the Board, the Committee carried out the annual 
high risk roles. 
assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls during 2020, 
including those related to the financial reporting process. The 
The Committee recognises the need to constantly evolve the 
Committee also considered the adequacy of the Group’s risk 
Group’s information security defences in light of the pace of 
management arrangements in the context of the Group’s business and 
developments and threats in this area. 
strategy. In carrying out its assessment, the Committee considered 
reports from the Group Financial Controller, the heads of Compliance, 
Risk and Internal Audit, and EY. This enabled an evaluation of the 
effectiveness of the Group’s internal control framework. The Group 
Operational resilience
continually works to enhance systems to support and improve the 
control environment. The Committee continued to monitor the Group’s operational 
resilience during 2020 particularly in the context of the 
Risk disruption caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. Prior to 2020, the 
Risk reports set out changes in the level or nature of the risks faced by  Group had invested in enhancing its technology capability and 
the Group, developments in risk management, and operational risk  had revised its business continuity plans. These enhancements 
events, including significant errors and omissions. Separate reports  meant that the majority of the workforce around the world 
allowed the Committee to consider a range of factors when  could work remotely and that the interests of clients could be 
determining the key risks and uncertainties faced by the Group.   safeguarded. The Committee was apprised of the work of the 
These included assessments of risk tolerance and stress testing of the  Crisis Management Team which met regularly during the early 
Group’s capital position, as well as the production of the Group’s ICAAP,  stages of the pandemic. The business updated risk and control 
ILAAP, the wind down plan and the Group’s Recovery Plan and  assessments and regular dialogue has been maintained with 
Resolution process.  the Group’s regulators.
The Committee also considers emerging and thematic risks that   The Committee will continue to closely monitor the Group’s 
may have a material impact on the Group. In 2020, the Committee  operational resilience as the disruption from the Covid-19 
considered the risks arising from the Covid-19 pandemic which had   pandemic continues in 2021. 
an impact on pricing, valuations, liquidity, market returns, business 
resilience and continuity and information security. Acquisition and 
integration risk was also reviewed to support the Group’s strategy. 
Climate change risk was discussed at the Board meeting in November  Financial crime
as part of our corporate purpose discussions. The Committee regularly  Financial crime risk mitigation continues to be high on the 
reviews the Group’s approach to the management of legal risks and  Group’s agenda and is a priority for all our key regulators 
risk events.  globally. In Europe, higher standards imposed by the 5th EU 
Money Laundering Directive and the 6th EU Money Laundering 
Further information can be found in the key risks and mitigations  Directive came into force in 2020. During the year, the Financial 
section of the Strategic report set out on pages 50 to 55 and 57. Crime team made enhancements to the Group’s framework 
including updating procedures and policies to take into 
Set out on this and the following page are summaries of the  account the nature of the Private Assets & Alternatives 
Committee’s activity in four areas where members of the first line of  business, which has exposure to higher risk countries for 
defence attended and presented to the Committee in relation to  financial crime and more complex transactions, and the EU 
emerging and thematic risks.  legislative requirements. 
The Committee receives regular reports and recognises the 
importance of having a consistent global approach to 
managing financial crime risk and welcomed these 
enhancements in supporting the Group’s strategy. 
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 73
Audit and Risk Committee report continued
The Committee reviews Internal Audit reports on progress against a 
rolling plan of audits approved by the Committee on an annual basis. 
Business integration 
These reports include any significant findings from audits performed, 
The Group has made a number of acquisitions and entered 
including any observations on culture, recommendations to improve 
into joint ventures and strategic partnerships in recent years in 
the control environment and their subsequent remediation. During 
support of the Board’s strategic aim of investing for growth. In 
2020, the Committee agreed to proposed amendments to the Internal 
2020, the Committee reviewed the Group’s approach to each 
Audit plan as the Covid-19 pandemic led to audits taking longer to 
acquisition which is determined on a case by case basis within 
complete than would otherwise be the case with the team working 
an integration framework. The framework enables the 
remotely and unable to travel to all offices. The 2020 Internal Audit plan 
business to balance the focus on growth alongside risk 
was continually reassessed by the Committee and Internal Audit to 
mitigation requirements, depending on the regulatory 
ensure that it remained focused on the areas of highest risk. The 2021 
environment and the Group’s risk appetite. 
Internal Audit plan has been developed to take into account the impact 
of the pandemic. 
Elements of the Group’s financial crime risk framework, 
information and data security procedures and the financial 
The annual compliance testing and Internal Audit plans are developed 
control environment are targeted for implementation from 
using a risk-based approach to provide proportionate assurance 
completion of an acquisition and the general practice is for 
together over the Group’s controls for the key risks set out on pages 50 
Internal Audit to visit the acquired business within the first 
to 55 and 57.
year. The Committee recognises that it can take time for 
acquired businesses to implement all of the Group’s policies on  Evaluating the performance of the Committee
a risk aware basis and there can be heightened reputational 
The annual evaluation of the Committee’s effectiveness was undertaken 
risk and risk to the internal control environment during the 
as part of the overall Board evaluation process. Reporting to the Board 
integration period. 
on the committee activities was felt to be comprehensive. The findings 
relating to the Committee were discussed with the Committee 
The Committee recognises the importance of growing the 
Chairman. Overall, the Committee is considered to be performing well 
business and will continue to have sight of the integration 
and to be rigorous and effective in discharging its responsibilities and 
framework so that the risks arising from acquisitions, joint 
providing the Board with assurance.
ventures and strategic partnerships are appropriately managed. 
Priorities for 2021
As well as considering the standing items of business, the Committee 
Compliance
will also focus on the following areas during 2021:
Compliance reports describe the status of our relationships and 
dealings with our principal regulators and material changes in the  –  Information and cyber security
regulatory environment in which the Group operates. The reports also  –  Thematic risks 
outline key compliance issues, and the planning and execution of the  –  Financial crime
compliance testing programme. Monitoring is carried out globally to  –  Operational resilience including outsourced services
assess the Group’s compliance with local regulatory standards and  –  Audit and regulatory changes
requirements. –  LIBOR replacement
–  Global operating strategy
During 2020, the Group’s engagement with regulators across the globe 
increased as we discussed key issues arising from the Covid-19  Committee’s assessment of internal control and risk 
pandemic including operational resilience to safeguard the interests of  management arrangements
clients. The Committee also considered the actions being taken to  The Committee was content with the effectiveness of the Group’s 
enhance MiFID II transaction reporting following a review by PwC.  processes governing financial and regulatory reporting and controls, its 
culture, ethical standards and its relationships with regulators. The 
Internal Audit
Committee was also satisfied with the appropriateness and adequacy of 
The Committee has authority to appoint or remove the Group Head of  the Group’s risk management arrangements and supporting risk 
Internal Audit, who reports directly to the Chairman of the Committee.  management systems including: the risk monitoring processes, internal 
The Chairman of the Committee is accountable for setting the  controls framework and the three lines of defence model.
objectives of the Group Head of Internal Audit, appraising his 
performance against those objectives and for recommending his  By order of the Board.
remuneration to the Remuneration Committee, with advice from the 
Group Chief Executive. Rhian Davies
Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee
The Committee also has responsibility for approving the Internal Audit 
budget and being satisfied that the Internal Audit function has  3 March 2021
appropriate resources and continues to be an effective and valued 
assurance function within the Group. The Committee satisfies itself as 
to the quality, experience and expertise of the function through regular 
interaction with the Group Head of Internal Audit, both when the 
Committee meets and also through other regular meetings outside the 
formal meeting schedule. In addition there is an external review of the 
Internal Audit function every five years, which provides further assurance.
74 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Remuneration report
Paying for performance in a simple  
and transparent way
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present our 2020 Remuneration  G
report. The report provides context and insight into our pay  ov
e
arrangements for Directors and other employees of the Group. In  rn
a
addition to meeting the statutory requirements, this year’s report  n
c
e
includes a particular focus on the impact of Covid-19 on remuneration, 
the assessment of 2020 performance and pay, and our focus on pay 
fairness across the workforce.
Acting as a responsible steward for all our stakeholders is at the core of 
our purpose. Our commitment to that purpose has not wavered during 
this challenging year, with Schroders being at the forefront of many 
corporate initiatives in response to the global pandemic, as described 
on pages 12-13. The Committee did not make any adjustment to the 
annual bonus scorecards for the executive Directors or the long term 
incentive plan (LTIP) performance conditions, despite these targets 
having been determined before the scale of the impact of the global 
pandemic began to be more fully understood.
We are proud of how our people responded when faced with these 
challenging circumstances, with our past investment in technology and 
our operating platform facilitating an efficient transition to remote 
Structure of the Remuneration report
working, helping to keep our people safe and maintain a high level of 
Annual report on remuneration in 2020  75 to 87
productivity. Our emphasis on supporting our employees during this 
Remuneration focus in 2021  88 to 89
period was reflected in our employee engagement scores being at a 
Remuneration governance  90 to 91
record high, with 98% of employees proud to be associated with 
Notes to the annual report on remuneration  92 to 102
Schroders in our 2020 employee survey. Our people’s unwavering focus 
on our clients was reflected in our continued delivery of strong 
Committee membership investment performance and our quick transition to digital engagement 
with our clients. Schroders did not furlough any employees, make any 
–  Sir Damon Buffini (Chairman)
Covid-19 related redundancies or accept government assistance 
–  Rhian Davies
globally. From a shareholder perspective, the Group delivered a robust 
–  Ian King
performance in 2020, maintaining our dividend in both 2019 and 2020 
–  Matthew Westerman (from 19 November 2020)
and delivering total shareholder returns in excess of the FTSE 100. AUM 
reached a record high, including significant investment returns, strong 
See page 61 for meeting attendance and page 90 for 
net sales and successful completion of two acquisitions. 
a summary of the responsibilities of the Committee.
Covid-19 impact on Directors’ remuneration
The Committee and executive Directors took positive action in recognition of the societal impact of the global pandemic:
Action taken
No adjustment to  –  The Committee considered whether annual bonus scorecard or LTIP performance targets should be adjusted 
performance targets  in light of the unforeseen pandemic and determined that no adjustment should be made to any targets set 
– for the annual   before the pandemic.
bonus scorecard or 
–  In assessing the non-financial metrics in the scorecard for the executive Directors, the Committee considered 
LTIP vesting
the impact of Covid-19 on the wider environment, and then further reduced their bonuses as outlined below.
Giving back to society  –  The executive Directors each donated 25% of their salaries for three months.
– voluntary  –  The Group Chairman and non-executive Directors each donated 25% of their fees for three months.
#CollectiveAction  –  Schroders matched these donations 1:1, resulting in total donations of £293,750.
campaign
LTIP awards waived  –  The executive Directors waived their 2020 LTIP awards, with a total grant date face value of £1 million.
– voluntary action by  –  The executive Directors intend to waive their 2021 LTIP awards, with a face value of a further £1 million. 
the executive Directors –  Schroders made £2 million of charitable donations in 2020 and intends to make a further £1 million of 
charitable donation during 2021.
Reduction in bonuses  –  Despite strong personal performance by each executive Director, the Committee acknowledged the societal 
for 2020 – with the   impact of Covid-19 and adjusted the non-financial element of the annual bonus scorecard accordingly. 
full support of the  –  The Committee then further reduced the 2020 bonus by £250,000 and £100,000 for the Group Chief Executive 
executive Directors
and Chief Financial Officer respectively, with the full support of each of the executive Directors. 
–  The Group intends to make further charitable donations of £700,000.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 75
Remuneration report continued
The strong outcomes delivered in 2020 for shareholders, clients and   charities through our #CollectiveAction campaign last year, dedicated  
our people, notwithstanding the extraordinary and unforeseen  to supporting those most affected by Covid-19. The Group intends to 
circumstances, were reflected in the outcomes for the financial metrics  donate a further £1.7 million following the executive Directors’ decision 
in the executive Directors’ bonus scorecard for 2020. Each executive  to waive their 2021 LTIP awards and the reductions made to the 
Director also performed strongly against the non-financial scorecard  executive Directors’ annual bonus awards for 2020. 
metrics. However, although these outcomes were reflective of 
performance delivered, the Committee wanted to recognise the  Remuneration approach for the executive Directors
challenging wider context and elected to reduce the non-financial  Our Directors’ remuneration policy was approved at our AGM in 2020 
scorecard outcomes below what they would have been based solely on  and I would like to thank our shareholders for their support, with 98% of 
an assessment of the pre-determined scorecard metrics. The Committee  votes cast to approve our policy (see page 78). Long-term thinking 
also exercised its discretion to further reduce the executive Directors’  continues to govern our approach to remuneration. We pay for 
bonus outcomes, by a total of £350,000. The executive Directors fully  performance in a simple and transparent way, clearly aligned to 
supported these reductions, which are in addition to them voluntarily  shareholder and client interests, to the financial performance of the 
waiving their 2020 and 2021 LTIP awards, with a grant date face   Group and to the progress made towards our strategic goals. Our 
value totalling £1 million each year. More details can be found on   remuneration strategy must reflect the global marketplace in which we 
pages 80-83. operate, helping us to attract, motivate, reward and retain the talented 
individuals we need to maintain the Group’s success. The diagram below 
Given the extensive impact of Covid-19, we felt that it was important to  illustrates the remuneration policy for the executive Directors while  
give back to society, as well as showing moderation as part of our  page 77 sets out more context on how our remuneration approach 
remuneration decisions this year. The table on page 75 summarises the  aligns with our purpose.
actions taken. Combining contributions from our people, including the 
Directors, and Schroders’ matching donations, £4.3 million was raised for 
Executive Directors’ remuneration policy illustration
The Directors’ remuneration policy was approved by shareholders at our 2020 AGM and can be found on our website at  
www.schroders.com/directors-remuneration-policy. 
The remuneration policy defines a maximum limit for the total remuneration of each executive Director each year, being £9 million for the Group 
Chief Executive and £4.5 million for the Chief Financial Officer. The diagram below illustrates the structure of the executive Directors’ remuneration, 
including the timing of when they receive each component of remuneration, across the fixed components paid in the year (salary, benefits and 
allowances, contributions to retirement benefits or cash in lieu), any annual bonus award in respect of the year and the LTIP awards to be granted 
following the financial year-end. 
LTIP 4-year deferral, subject to performance conditions, followed by a 1-year holding period from vesting Holding period Shares
Deferred bonus  3.5-year deferral Funds
– fund award  2.5-year deferral Funds Deferred portion of any  
(circa 15% of  
bonus) 1.5-year deferral Funds annual bonus award granted 
75% as a deferred share award, 
available to exercise in equal 
Deferred  3-year deferral Shares instalments after 1, 2 and 3 
portion of   years from grant through to 
any annual  the 10th anniversary of grant, 
bonus  Deferred 
(circa 60% of  bonus – share   Granted  and 25% as a deferred fund 
bonus) award   under the  2-year deferral Shares award, available to exercise in 
(cirbcao n4u5s%) of   ADweafredr rPeladn   equal instalments after 1.5, 2.5 
(DAP) and 3.5 years from grant 
through to the 5th anniversary 
1-year deferral Shares of grant.
Upfront portion of any annual 
Upfront bonus 
– fund award  6-month  bonus award paid half in cash 
holding  Funds
(circa 20% of  in February after the end of the 
Upfront  bonus) period performance year and half 
portion of any 
annual bonus  granted as an upfront fund 
(circa 40% of  award that is subject to a 
bonus) Upfront bonus 
– cash   Paid via   6-month holding period, 
Cash
(circa 20% of  payroll available to exercise through to 
bonus)
the 5th anniversary of grant.
Fixed pay
Performance year Feb Sep Mar Sep Mar Sep Mar Sep Mar Sep Mar
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
76 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
How our remuneration aligns to our purpose: 
To provide excellent investment performance to our clients through active management
How we create value for our stakeholders Go
v
e
rn
a
Delivering returns for  Delivering returns for  Taking decisions to  Taking decisions to  n
c
clients shareholders benefit our people benefit society e
Our remuneration principles
Aligned with clients Aligned with  Competitive Designed to promote  
A significant proportion of  shareholders Employees receive a  the long-term, 
higher-earning employees’ and  A significant proportion of  competitive remuneration  sustainable success of 
material risk takers’ variable  variable remuneration is  package, which is reviewed  the Group 
remuneration is granted as  granted in the form of deferred  annually and benchmarked by  The Committee designed the 
fund awards, which are notional  awards over Schroders shares,  reference to the external  overall remuneration policy 
investments in funds managed  thereby aligning the interests  market. This allows us to  with this in mind and it was 
by the Group, thereby aligning  of employees and  attract, retain and motivate  this overarching objective that 
the interests of employees and  shareholders. Executive  highly talented people, who  resulted in the remuneration 
clients. This includes the  Directors and other members  know that good performance  principles outlined to the left.
executive Directors, other  of the GMC are required, over  will be rewarded. 
members of the GMC and other  time, to acquire and retain a 
key employees such as senior  significant holding of Schroders 
fund managers.  shares or rights to shares.
Aligned with financial  Designed to encourage 
performance retention
We target a 65% ratio of total  Deferred variable 
costs to net income through  remuneration does not give 
the market cycle. Within that,  rise to any immediate 
the total spend on  entitlement. Awards normally 
remuneration is managed as a  require the participant to be 
percentage of net income, the  employed continuously by the 
total compensation ratio. This  Group until at least the third 
ratio is recommended by the  anniversary of grant in order 
Committee to the Board. This  to vest in full. 
approach aligns remuneration 
with financial performance. 
Our executive Director remuneration approach
9 3 and 5-year client  9 Circa 45% of bonus paid in  9 Competitiveness considered   9 Bonus scorecard 30% 
investment performance  shares by reference to total  non-financial metrics, 
tested in the annual bonus  9 Stretching shareholding  compensation for  including strategic progress 
scorecard requirements comparable roles at other  and sustainability 
9 Circa 35% of bonus paid in  9 Requirement to maintain a  large international asset  9 Committee discretion to 
fund awards  level of shareholding for  management firms adjust scorecard outcomes, 
two years on stepping  9 Used as a frame of  taking into account the 
down  reference, not as a starting  wider social and economic 
point / primary factor in  context
remuneration decisions
9 Financial metrics comprise  9 Circa 60% of bonus 
70% of annual bonus  deferred over a 3 to 3.5  
scorecard year period 
9 LTIP awards based on  9 LTIP subject to 4-year 
long-term financial  deferral and 1-year  
performance (earnings per  holding period 
share and net new business) 
For more detail on our purpose see page 1, and on our business model and how we create value for our stakeholders see pages 14-15. 
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 77
Remuneration report continued
Shareholder voting on remuneration
At the 2020 AGM, on 30 April 2020, shareholders approved the Remuneration report and Directors’ remuneration policy that were published in the 
2019 Annual Report and Accounts, both receiving strong votes in favour.
To approve the Remuneration report   To approve the Directors’ remuneration policy  
at the 2020 AGM at the 2020 AGM
To approve the relevant  Votes   Votes  To approve the relevant  Votes  Votes 
Remuneration report for against Directors’ remuneration policy for against
2017 AGM 95% 5% 2017 AGM 94% 6%
111%%% 222%%%
2018 AGM 96% 4% 2020 AGM 98% 2%
2019 AGM 88% 12%
999999%%%    999888%%%
2020 AGM 99% 1%
2020 AGM voting 2020 AGM voting
 Votes  for 194,573,414  Votes  for 192,427,541
 Votes against 2,012,357 Votes withheld 3,871,165  Votes against 4,157,537 Votes withheld 3,871,858
Future regulatory uncertainty
We expect to operate the current Directors’ remuneration policy for three years from the 2020 AGM, though there remains the possibility that we 
could require a new Directors’ remuneration policy sooner than we would otherwise intend to address future regulatory changes. During the latter 
part of 2020, we consulted with our largest shareholders on changes that we thought might have been necessary to comply with the UK’s 
implementation of the fifth iteration of the Capital Requirements Directive (CRD V). At present Schroders is not required to comply with those parts of 
CRD V that would require the most fundamental policy changes and so we will continue to operate the policy that shareholders approved last year. 
Regulatory uncertainty remains, particularly with the FCA and PRA due to finalise and implement the UK’s new Investment Firms Prudential Regime 
and the bedding in of CRD V. We would consult with shareholders if regulatory changes were to mean a new policy is required. 
Shareholder alignment and Directors’ shareholdings (audited)
Alignment with shareholders is one of the principles underpinning our Directors’ remuneration policy, as outlined on page 77. Both Peter Harrison 
and Richard Keers have shareholdings well in excess of the level required under our personal shareholding policy. This ensures that their interests are 
aligned with those of our shareholders. As outlined on page 100, a 10% share price movement equates to a change in value of the shareholdings of 
Peter Harrison and Richard Keers of £525,000 and £237,000 respectively, not including the value of LTIP shares that are still subject to performance 
conditions and therefore do not count for the purposes of the shareholding policy. 
Value of shareholding vs. shareholding policy (% of salary) 
Group Chief Executive Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Peter Harrison Richard Keers
Policy 500% Policy 300%
Actual 1,050% 156% Actual 633% 138%
Policy Shareholding LTIP shares subject to performance conditions
For more detail on the personal shareholdings policy and the basis of the figures shown in this chart see page 100. For more detail on the Directors’ rights to 
shares and shareholdings see pages 101 and 102. 
78 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
2020 performance and pay outcomes
G
o
2020 was an extraordinary year that tested our operational resilience  Key performance and remuneration metrics  v
e
and the resilience of our people. Despite these challenges, we delivered  rn
a
strong investment performance for our clients and resilient results for  Net income* nc
+0% e
our shareholders, made significant progress across a number of 
strategically important areas, continued to enhance our operational 
+3%
capabilities and made sure that we continue to do the right thing for 
society. More detail is set out in the Group Chief Executive’s statement  Proﬁt before tax*
(8%)
on pages 10-13, our Strategy on pages 16-17, our Key performance 
indicators on pages 22-23 and our Business and financial review on 
+0%
pages 24-29, and considering the perspectives of other key 
stakeholders on pages 30-49. Earnings per share*
(7%)
Our AUM closed 2020 at a record high of £574.4 billion (2019: £500.2 
(0)%
billion), through a combination of £42.5 billion of net flows, £28.4 billion 
of investment returns and £3.3 billion of acquisitions. We delivered 
Dividend per share
+0%
strong investment performance for our clients, with 72% and 81% of 
assets outperforming their stated comparator over three and five years 
+0%
respectively (2019: 70% and 72% respectively), and with net carried 
interest and performance fees of £95.7 million (2019: £73.1 million). 
Headcount
Overall, net income before exceptional items increased to £2,179.2  +13%
million (2019: £2,124.8 million). Our ratio of total costs to net income 
rose to 68% (2019: 67%), principally due to the impact of acquisitions,  (2%)
our investment in technology and infrastructure and the increase in our 
Fixed remuneration costs*
ratio of total compensation to net income. As a result we saw profit  +9%
before tax and exceptional items of £702.3 million (2019: £701.2 million). 
Basic earnings per share before exceptional items was 200.8 pence  +5%
(2019: 201.6 pence). The Board is recommending a final dividend of 79 
Annual bonus pool
pence per share, bringing the total dividend for the year to 114 pence,  (11%)
in line with the total dividend for 2019.
+2%
We considered the circumstances of the year and the ongoing 
Total remuneration costs*
economic and social uncertainty, and remain cognisant of the  +3%
significant challenges that our industry faces. We recommended to the 
Board an increase in our total compensation ratio to 45% (2019: 44%),  +5%
recognising the importance of sustaining the Group’s success in 
attracting, motivating and retaining talent. This remains at the lower 
*  Before exceptional items.              2019 vs. 2018   2020 vs. 2019 
end of our target range of 45% to 49%, as we must manage our costs 
overall and continue to position the Group for the headwinds facing our 
industry. As a result, the annual bonus pool is up 2% on last year,  Relative spend at a glance 
following reductions in 2018 and 2019 of 7% and 11% respectively. 
Net income: £2,179 million
£millions up 86% since 2011
For more detail on the annual bonus pool see page 92.
2,500
2,000 27%
The lower chart on the right shows how net income has been utilised  1,500 14%
over the 10 years ended 31 December 2020, as we have continued to  23%
invest in future growth. During that period, the percentage of net  1,000 10%
income distributed to shareholders via the interim and final dividend  12%
500
paid has increased by 61%, from 9% to 14%.  14%
0
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Fixed remuneration  Corporate tax and social security
Variable remuneration Retained earnings
Other operating expenses Interim and ﬁnal dividend paid
For more detail on this chart please see page 92. 
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 79
Remuneration report continued
Determining the executive Directors’ pay outcomes Peter Harrison’s performance in 2020 was strong, in particular the 
During 2020 we managed the executive Directors’ remuneration in line  personal leadership he showed during the year in navigating the 
with the Directors’ remuneration policy that shareholders approved   Group’s response during the global pandemic. Strategic progress was 
at our 2020 AGM. This included the determination of their annual   also good despite the difficult economic and political background. 
bonus awards in respect of performance during 2020, assessment of  Wealth Management, Private Assets & Alternatives and Solutions now 
performance for the LTIP awards expected to vest on 4 March 2021 and  constitute 54% of our AUM and 43% of revenues, having grown Wealth 
agreeing the LTIP awards that we intend to grant to them in March 2021.  Management through a combination of organic growth and the 
acquisition of Sandaire and expanded our Private Assets offering 
Determining the executive Directors’ annual bonus awards in  through the acquisition of a majority stake in Pamfleet, organic growth 
respect of 2020 performance and with key hires to build our capabilities. We achieved full ESG 
We determine the annual bonus awards for the executive Directors  integration of our managed assets by the end of 2020 and have a 
using a scorecard. At the beginning of the performance year, we  comprehensive range of sustainable funds, such as our Global  
determined the scorecard metrics, which for 2020 were weighted 70%  Climate Change strategy. Despite this strong personal performance,  
to financial factors and 30% to non-financial factors. We also  in recognition of the impact of Covid-19 on society more broadly,  
determined the level of performance required under each metric to  for the non-financial element of the scorecard we gave Peter a 65% 
trigger threshold, target and maximum payout, taking into account the  outcome. With the financial outcomes, this would have resulted in a 
recommendations of the Group Chairman and the Group Chief  bonus of £5.678 million.
Executive, the Board-approved budget, market expectations, prior-year 
financial outcomes, strategic priorities and the wider economic  Richard Keers also performed strongly during 2020, in a year that 
landscape. Target payout is 65% of the maximum opportunity while for  tested our operational resilience. Our investment in technology over the 
threshold performance 25% is payable, and no payment is triggered for  last few years enabled us to switch to remote working efficiently across 
performance below threshold. The performance metrics in the  our global network, with no impact on our ability to deliver for our 
scorecard are consistent with those adopted for 2021 and are aligned to  clients over this period. The transition of the remaining tranches of the 
the Group’s strategy, as outlined on page 88.  Scottish Widows mandate was completed, the last tranche entirely 
through remote working, on time and without any significant issues. 
The Committee did not make any adjustment to the scorecard targets  We also relocated operational processes from Luxembourg and London 
as a result of Covid-19, as set out on page 75. Having assessed  to Horsham, built out our operations teams in Singapore and 
performance against the scorecard, for the financial elements the  successfully moved to a new Transfer Agent, which was a major 
performance achieved was sufficient to drive a 75.4% payout, as set out  undertaking. Richard continued to provide highly effective global 
opposite. Profits were marginally ahead of prior year but marginally  operations oversight, a strong risk and control environment and 
behind budget, leading to profit outcomes of 66% and 65% of  accurate and timely financial reporting. Again, despite this strong 
maximum respectively. Client investment performance exceeded the  personal performance during the year, to reflect the broader societal 
maximum target over both 3 and 5 years, leading to a 100% payout in  context, for the non-financial element of the scorecard we gave Richard 
respect of this element. Net new business came in at £42.5 billion,  a 51% outcome. Together with the financial outcomes, this would have 
which gives a 66% payout for this element; this excludes net flows from  resulted in a bonus of £2.503 million.
our joint ventures with the Bank of Communications in China and Axis 
Bank in India as these were not factored in when setting the targets. Under our Directors’ remuneration policy, the Committee may apply 
discretion to adjust annual bonus awards to the extent it judges that 
To determine each Director’s bonus, we then considered the non- the outcomes of the annual bonus scorecard do not align with results 
financial elements of the scorecard. In doing so, the Committee  achieved, or in light of unexpected or unforeseen circumstances. The 
assessed progress against pre-determined strategic goals, as well as  Committee considered the extraordinary circumstances of 2020. Our 
achievement against sustainability goals, including targets relating to  resilient results delivered favourable outcomes for our clients and 
ESG, talent and governance. This was supplemented by an assessment  shareholders, as outlined on page 75. Nonetheless, given the wider 
of each individual’s performance, including consideration of business  context the Committee determined that the annual bonus awards for 
performance within each individual’s responsibilities and the extent to  the executive Directors should be reduced further, despite the strong 
which they have met annual performance objectives. To ensure a  personal performance from each of the executive Directors. 
balanced overall assessment of performance the scorecard does not 
have pre-determined weightings for each non-financial performance  As a result, the Committee reduced the annual bonus award for Peter 
factor. Rather the Committee applied its judgement to determine an  Harrison by £250,000 to £5.428 million and for Richard Keers by 
overall outcome for the non-financial aspects of the scorecard for each  £100,000 to £2.403 million. The executive Directors were supportive of 
executive Director, taking into account performance against the relevant  the reductions that the Committee made to their bonuses, in light of 
metrics and targets. The Group Chief Executive’s recommendation was  the wider context in which we are operating.
taken into account for the Chief Financial Officer. 
80 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
G
Assessment of the executive Directors’ 2020 annual bonus scorecard (audited) o
v
These charts illustrate the executive Directors’ annual bonus scorecards for 2020, the performance achieved and the resulting annual bonus awards.  ern
a
n
c
e
Performance  Weighting Threshold Target Maximum Achievement Resulting 
measure 25% payout 65% payout 100% payout Payout for  bonus payout
this metric
Financial metrics
702.3
Proﬁt before tax  vs. budget 632.7 703.0 702.3 773.3 65%
and exceptional  35% 22.8%
items (£m) vs. prior year 631.1 701.2 702.3 771.3 702.3
66%
72%
3-year 50% 60% 70% 72%
Investment  100%
20% 20.0%
performance   81%
5-year 55% 65% 75% 81%
100%
42.5
Net new business (£bn) 15% 32.0 42.0 42.5 53.9 10.0%
66%
75.4% 52.7%
Total bonus payout for ﬁnancial metrics 75.4%
out of 100% out of 70%
Peter Harrison – Group Chief Executive
Strategic progress, 
sustainability, conduct  65%  19.6% 
and personal goals1 30% 65% out of 100% out of 30%
Overall scorecard outcome  72.4%
for Peter Harrison 72.4% out of 100%
Initial scorecard outcome for Peter Harrison (£000)  5,678 
Discretionary Covid-19 reduction in annual bonus award (£000) (250) 
Annual bonus award for Peter Harrison (£000)  5,428 
Richard Keers – Chief Financial Oﬃcer 
Strategic progress, 
sustainability, conduct  51% 15.4%
and personal goals1 30% 51% out of 100% out of 30%
Overall scorecard outcome  68.1%
68.1%
for Richard Keers out of 100%
Initial scorecard outcome for Richard Keers (£000)   2,503 
Discretionary Covid-19 reduction in annual bonus award (£000) (100) 
Annual bonus award for Richard Keers (£000)  2,403 
1. The Committee assessed the non-financial element of each executive Director at these levels, despite their personal performance, to reflect the impact of 
Covid-19 on society more broadly.
For more detail on the non-financial outcomes for each executive Director see pages 82-83. 
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 81
Remuneration report continued 
The non-financial outcomes in the annual bonus scorecard for each executive Director
The annual bonus scorecard that the Committee used in determining the annual bonus awards for the executive Directors, along with the 
Committee’s assessment of performance against the scorecard, is outlined on pages 80-81. The tables that follow outline the Committee’s assessment 
of the non-financial elements of the scorecard.
In making its performance assessment for 2020, the Committee acknowledged the strong personal performance achieved by each of the executive 
Directors during the year and significant progress against strategic and sustainability goals. However, in applying its judgement to the overall 
non-financial outcome for 2020, the Committee took into account the broader stakeholder experience, in particular the impact of Covid-19 on society 
more broadly. As a result, the Committee marked the scorecard for the non-financial outcomes below the level that would otherwise be expected if 
based on the executive Directors’ performance against the pre-determined scorecard targets. 
Group-wide factors considered when assessing the non-financial elements of the annual bonus scorecards
Criteria Target Performance in 2020
Strategic factors
Progress in  Grow Asset Management –  Grew the Asset Management business via a range of initiatives, including market-leading ESG 
identified  insights, significant growth in the Group’s range of thematic strategies, continuing to grow and 
strategic  leverage a powerful Data Insights Unit and being granted a fund management licence in China 
opportunities to enable Schroders to provide solutions to retail customers there.
–  Expanded the Group’s partnership network globally, via the partnership and joint venture with 
Lloyds Banking Group (LBG) and partnerships with Axis in India, Nippon Life in Japan and Bank 
of Communications in China, including agreement with the latter to form a new wealth 
management company joint venture during 2022.
Build closer relationships  –  Grew the Wealth Management business through both net inflows and the acquisition of 
with end clients Sandaire, a London-based multi-family office, providing an exceptional opportunity to grow 
Cazenove Capital’s leading position in the UK’s ultra high-net-worth segment.
–  Schroder Personal Wealth laid the foundations for future growth with new leadership and 
improved IT infrastructure but referrals from LBG were impacted by Covid-19.
Expand Private Assets &  –  Expanded private markets capabilities via the acquisition of Pamfleet, a Hong Kong-based real 
Alternatives estate manager, and via key hires to build capabilities organically and broaden the dedicated 
Private Assets sales team.
–  Overall growth in Private Assets & Alternatives was relatively modest.
Strategy formulation and  –  2020 saw progress across strategic objectives, as outlined above.
overall strategic outcome –  Key strategic growth areas of Wealth Management, Private Assets & Alternatives and Solutions 
now constitute 54% of AUM and 43% of revenues.
Sustainability goals
ESG  Integrate ESG into the  –  Full integration was achieved across Schroders managed assets in December 2020, having 
integration investment process for all  started the year with ESG integration for just over 50% of managed assets.
Schroders managed assets
Talent  Retention of at least 90% of  –  Retention of key talent remains above target, at 94% (2019: 94%).
retention1 and  key talent –  Succession plans for key employees were reviewed by the Board in July 2020.
succession  Identify and implement 
planning succession plans for key 
employees
Diversity and  33% female representation  –  Met the Group’s original target of 30% representation by the end of 2019 and increased this to 
inclusion within senior management  33%. During 2020, achieved the 33% target. More needs to be done and the new target is 35% 
by the end of 2020 by the end of 2023 (see page 87).
Reduce and  Move to operate on a  –  For Schroders’ business operations, business travel is the largest source of greenhouse gas 
offset  carbon net-neutral basis emissions and has significantly reduced during the Covid-19 pandemic. Since 2019, the Group 
emissions has partnered with Climate Care to develop an environmentally credible carbon offset 
programme that will predominantly support the protection and generation of natural carbon 
sinks (see page 43).
Governance goals
Appropriate  Oversight of the Group’s  –  The executive Directors steered the Group well through the challenges posed by the pandemic, 
governance  activities within an effective  with appropriate consideration of stakeholder interests.
of the Group governance framework
1. Included in the key performance indicators on pages 22-23.
82 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Individual factors considered when assessing the non-financial elements of the annual bonus scorecards G
o
Executive  ve
Director Criteria Performance in 2020 rna
n
c
e
Peter  Strategic progress In 2020, the Group achieved significant progress against its strategic objectives, which the Board 
Harrison believes will drive the future growth of the business, as outlined on the previous page. 
– Group 
Chief  People and talent Employee engagement is high, with 98% of employees proud to be associated with Schroders in 
Executive  the Group’s 2020 employee survey results and 96% responding that Schroders is interested in the 
wellbeing of its employees. Peter Harrison actively champions inclusion and diversity across the 
firm. Key talent across Schroders has been stable with low voluntary turnover. There remains 
further work to be done on succession planning.
Risk and reputation During the pandemic, Schroders’ reputation has remained strong with all stakeholders, including 
clients, shareholders, governments, regulators and industry associations. Peter Harrison takes 
personal accountability for this and his work internally and externally in this regard is well 
respected. The risk and control framework has delivered what is required to ensure good 
governance under the Senior Managers and Certification Regime.
Richard  Global operations  Operational efficacy remained high throughout the pandemic, with considerable on-boarding 
Keers oversight activities throughout the year, as well as high volumes. Despite the challenging external 
– Chief  environment, the Group’s operations platform performed well in what was a key year, including 
Financial  the completion of the on-boarding of the Scottish Widows mandate. Richard Keers has also 
Officer delivered successfully the majority of the Group’s global operating strategy transformation, 
reducing complexity, improving resilience and providing enhanced scalability.
Oversee a strong risk and  The financial crisis earlier in the year demonstrated that the Group’s risk assessments and cash 
control function management processes were robust. All regulatory capital and liquidity papers have satisfied 
regulators and Richard Keers has played an active role in the Regulatory College assessments. The 
Group Risk and Capital Committees continued to operate well under Richard Keers’s leadership. 
No significant issues were reported in the year. The Audit and Risk Committee report provides 
more information (from page 69).
Accurate, appropriate,  As above, Richard Keers has overseen the Group’s financial position during the crisis, playing a key 
clear and timely reporting  role in the management of the Group’s investment capital. He received positive feedback from the 
and oversight of the  Audit and Risk Committee, analysts, shareholders and other industry bodies.
Group’s financial position
The metrics and targets outlined above and on the previous page represent the most material criteria by which the Group’s non-financial 
performance and the performance of the executive Directors were assessed. The Committee members and the Board as a whole also review 
performance across a broad range of other metrics as part of the normal course of business throughout the year and during the year-end process. 
Performance against many of these metrics is disclosed in the half-year and annual results announcements and in the Annual Report and Accounts.
Determining the executive Directors’ LTIP awards to be granted in  Corporate charitable donations
March 2021 As outlined earlier, the Committee reduced the annual bonus awards for 
Each year the executive Directors are considered for an LTIP award. The  Peter Harrison and Richard Keers by £250,000 and £100,000 respectively 
Committee agreed to grant LTIP awards over shares with the following  and the executive Directors have also indicated that they intend to give 
values to the executive Directors in March 2021: up their 2021 LTIP awards, with a face value at grant of £600,000 and 
£400,000 respectively. The Board has subsequently resolved that the 
Director LTIP face value at grant Group will make donations totalling £1.7 million to our Schroders Giving 
Peter Harrison £600,000 #CollectiveAction campaign. With the £4.3 million already donated 
Richard Keers £400,000  during 2020, this will bring the total donated to £6.0 million.
The executive Directors have subsequently indicated that they intend to 
give up their 2021 LTIP awards, as they did those granted to them in 
March 2020. If those awards are not actively accepted by the respective 
executive Directors then under the rules of the LTIP they will lapse.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 83
Remuneration report continued
Determining the vesting of LTIP awards granted to the executive Directors in 2017 (audited)
The LTIP performance conditions remain highly demanding and, in March 2021, we expect LTIP awards granted in 2017 to vest at 50%, based on net 
new business. The earnings per share target, which requires 20% outperformance against the growth in a composite index, will again not be met. This 
vesting outcome is illustrated in the chart below. 
Vesting of LTIP awards granted to the executive Directors in 2017
Weighting 0% 20% 40% 60% Vesting (% of award)
Growth in composite index 26.7% +20% +20%
Earnings per share*  50%
(EPS)
Schroders EPS growth 5.8% Target range 0%
out of 50%
£bn 0 30 60 90
Net new business  Target 
50%
(NNB) Schroders cumulative NNB  range £86.0bn 50%
out of 50%
50%
Total expected to vest in relation to performance over the four years to 31 December 2020 out of 100%
*  Before exceptional items.    Criteria met   Partially met   Not met  
For more detail on the basis on which the Committee determined the vesting of LTIP awards granted in March 2017 see page 96.
No increases to the executive Directors’ salaries
We review base salaries annually but for the executive Directors, like other more highly-paid employees, we adjust them infrequently. Neither of the 
executive Directors received a base salary increase in 2020 or in 2021. We last increased the level of base salary for the executive Directors in 2014.
Executive Directors’ single total remuneration figures
The chart below compares the single total remuneration figures for 2020 for each executive Director with the maximum total remuneration that could 
be awarded under the Directors’ remuneration policy and the single total remuneration figures for 2019. The Group Chief Executive single figure has 
decreased 3% on prior year whilst the Chief Financial Officer single figure outcome increased by 3%.
Single total remuneration figures
Executive Director Single total remuneration ﬁgure (£’000)
GPeroteurp H Cahrierifs Eoxnecutivea2c0tu19a l 9% 18% 18% 26% 26% 3% 6,453
2020 
6% 18% 18% 38% 13% 7% 8,990
maximum1
2020 
8% 18% 18% 38% 13% 5% 6,277
actual
CRhicihefa Fridn aKneceirasl Oﬃcer a2c0tu19a l 15% 17% 17% 23% 23% 5% 2,936
2020 
9% 17% 17% 36% 12% 9% 4,492
maximum1
2020 
14% 17% 17% 34% 12% 6% 3,025
actual
Fixed pay Upfront bonus – cash Upfront bonus – fund award Deferred bonus – share award Deferred bonus – fund award LTIP vesting
1. The 2020 maximum above is based on the LTIP expected to vest in 2021, as shown on page 97, but assuming the performance conditions were met in full  
(i.e. 100% vesting rather than the 50% vesting that is expected). The maximum total remuneration under the Directors’ remuneration policy is defined as  
£9 million and £4.5 million for the Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer respectively, based on the face value of LTIP to be granted in 2021 as 
described on page 76.
 
For more detail on the single total remuneration figures for the executive Directors see pages 94 to 97.
 
We compete for talent in a global marketplace. Most of our key competitors are headquartered outside the UK, particularly in the US. Many are not 
publicly listed and therefore are subject to lower standards of transparency. It is against this backdrop that the Committee determines our pay 
structures and levels of pay, to ensure that we are able to attract, motivate, reward and retain the best talent. The upper charts on the page opposite 
illustrate the competitive positioning of pay for each executive Director, including commentary on the remuneration benchmarking approach in each 
case. The market data used in benchmarking these roles was provided independently by external advisers and reflects competitor pay for 2019, which 
is the most up-to-date data available, whereas the position shown for Schroders in each case reflects the single total remuneration figure for 2020. 
The lower chart compares the Group Chief Executive’s single total remuneration figure for the last 10 years with returns to Schroders shareholders 
over the same period.
84 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
G
Pay competitiveness for the executive Directors o
v
e
Group Chief Executive Chief Financial Oﬃcer rna
n
Peter Harrison Richard Keers c
e
Global asset FTSE 100 ﬁnancial  Global asset Global asset FTSE 100 ﬁnancial 
managers services FTSE 100 managers: CFO managers: COO services: CFO FTSE 100: CFO
Top quartile
2nd quartile
3rd quartile
Bottom
quartile
Base Total Base Total Base Total Base Total Base Total Base Total Base Total
salary  comp. salary  comp. salary  comp. salary  comp. salary  comp. salary  comp. salary  comp.
Positioning of remuneration at Schroders relative to the market benchmarks
Group Chief Executive benchmarking commentary Chief Financial Officer benchmarking commentary
Approximately half of the global asset manager comparator roles are from  The Schroders Chief Financial Officer has wider responsibilities than the 
non-listed businesses, including firms owned by a bank or insurance group  market norm, with firm-wide operational oversight and coordination, direct 
and privately-owned businesses, whereas Schroders is an independent  responsibility for a range of operations teams, as well as financial 
publicly listed company. Schroders differs from most of the global asset  management, risk management, human resources, capital and treasury. A 
managers as it also includes a wealth management business within the  comparison is also shown against the rates of pay for the Chief Operating 
Group Chief Executive’s remit, alongside Asset Management. As a result, the  Officer (COO) role at other global asset management firms, as an additional 
Schroders Group Chief Executive role sits among the more complex of the  reference point to reflect these wider responsibilities. The wealth 
roles making up this competitive benchmark. management business adds complexity compared to most comparators.
The Group Chief Executive’s total remuneration history vs. Schroders total shareholder return 
The graph on the right shows the 
Schroders ordinary shares Group Chief Executive’s total remuneration 
Group Chief Executive’s single total 
Schroders non-voting ordinary shares
remuneration figure over the 10 years  FTSE 100 Index
ended 31 December 2020.  £300 10
0
1
0
OtswciwoSnohocrvhidtdhtnaeahieirrcsrln xoe htalsaai sd th hSr1i uedwaayc4er  srhio4ssnte rhr h%ntnhoe.a   oto tdtOrrhhunleeedvaar-tsrneevttus   aorre oiris  nsntdrtf ih  eadn  taf6teh  og cau0l eoorp  r%o1  nmnSaFr3,gTcs d o4pchtS-i of%snaE1r tSmora 0a 1ircdrs nep0hyyoedte0a rnrsuoiar,snh  reordo ngasdfefr ,   f  rtetohshsr e.e     £100 invested on 31 December 2££120000 468 up Chief Executive’s single totalremuneration ﬁgure (£m) 
e of  2 Gro
u
al
For more detail on the Group Chief  V
Executive’s total remuneration over  0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 0
the last 10 years see page 95.  Michael Dobson Peter Harrison
Focusing on pay fairness across the workforce
The global pandemic has had a profound impact on all our employees. Treating our employees fairly remains a priority, as reflected in our decisions 
to not furlough any of our staff, take any government support or make any redundancies as a result of Covid-19. 
As in prior years, we set a firm-wide salary budget for the year-end compensation review and sought to target this towards increases for our lower 
earners, for whom fixed compensation generally comprises a more significant portion of total compensation, as well as those whose salaries were 
below market or who had taken on more responsibilities. Prompted by market data on salary increases across the industry, we undertook an 
additional review of salary competitiveness amongst our lower earners, to ensure they were paid favourably. A number of additional increases were 
approved for this population, which contributed to the Group-wide cost of salary increases coming in slightly ahead of the original budget. 
 
 
 
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 85
Remuneration report continued
Ensuring pay fairness across our workforce 
Our commitment Actions taken in 2020
Salaries – Pay a fair, market competitive rate of pay to all our  – No employees furloughed, even where Covid-19 meant 
employees, based on role and geography. individuals were not able to perform their duties in full.
– Target salary increases towards lower-paid  – Additional salary budget was provided to ensure 
employees, employees whose roles and  competitiveness of salaries amongst lower paid employees 
responsibilities have increased or where salary is  in particular. Resulting distribution of salary increases is 
below market rates. heavily in favour of lower-paid populations. 
– Ensure the balance between fixed and variable is  – The balance between fixed and variable remuneration was 
appropriate for employees, in particular for  reviewed for all support roles, with a handful of adjustments 
lower-paid employees and those in support and  made as a result.
control functions.
Benefits – Offer market-facing benefits to employees in all  – Maintained employee access to benefits to support mental 
markets. health and wellbeing throughout the pandemic, moving 
– Used to help recruit, reward and retain talent,  support services to virtual delivery wherever possible.
support employee health and wellbeing and  – Launch of the Schroders Flexible Working Charter, to apply 
reflect local market practice.  permanently beyond any Covid-19 restrictions.
– Engaged a global benefits management system provider to 
use analytics to drive improved global benefit decisions.
Variable pay – All permanent employees eligible to receive an  – Staff who were not able to perform their duties in full due to 
annual bonus award. Covid-19 (e.g. in facilities management) were still eligible for 
– Ensure pay decisions reflect the performance of  and received bonuses. This recognised that their 
individuals and the business they work in, as well  ‘underemployment’ was through no fault of their own and 
as the conduct and behaviours of each individual. recognised the loss of overtime payments experienced this 
year compared to prior years. 
– The Group’s control functions reviewed potential conduct or 
cultural issues to identify any instances where performance 
or behaviours have fallen short of our expectations. For 2020 
there were 8 cases where this resulted in a direct impact on 
individual performance ratings and remuneration outcomes 
(2019: 8 cases). See page 102 for more information on 
conduct, compliance and risk management in remuneration.
Pay  – Provide reliable and transparent pay  – We moved to online compensation statements from this 
administration administration. year, providing greater flexibility for employees and 
supporting remote working. 
   
We provide benefits to all our employees, which vary between  than for the Group Chief Executive and his direct reports are 
jurisdictions to reflect local market practice. The flexible benefits  recommended to the Group Chief Executive by members of the GMC, 
offering available to London-based employees is the same as for the  taking account of individual performance, the performance of the 
executive Directors, including private healthcare, life assurance,  relevant business area and the levels of reward for comparable roles in 
personal accident insurance and retirement savings, amongst others.  the market. For 2020, the Committee was satisfied that the year-end 
Pension contributions (or cash in lieu) are based on pensionable salary,  process was rigorous and that the allocation of the pool and the 
which is capped at £250,000, and as a result the executive Directors’  individual bonus awards took account of both financial and  
effective contribution rates as a percentage of their actual salary are  non-financial performance, including conduct and behaviours as 
8-9% for the Group Chief Executive and 11-12% for other executive  described on page 102.  
Directors, compared to 16-18% for most UK employees.  
The Committee reviews the Group-wide compensation review 
The Group Chief Executive allocates the overall annual bonus pool  outcomes before determining executive Director compensation for the 
between the divisions or functions headed by GMC members, taking  year. The annual bonus award for the Group Chief Executive for 2020 
into consideration both financial and non-financial performance. Each  performance was 4% down year-on-year, while his single total  
year, the Committee reviews the allocation of the bonus pool between  remuneration figure decreased by 3%. For the Chief Financial Officer, 
different areas of the business. The Group Chief Executive outlines the  the 2020 annual bonus award was 2% up year-on-year, while his single  
rationale for those allocations, in light of each area’s relative  total remuneration figure increased by 3%. For employees who worked 
performance and any other commercial factors.  in the Group for all of 2019 and 2020, the median year-on-year change 
in bonus was 0% and the median change in total compensation was up 
The Committee considered the distribution of year-on-year bonus  2%. The Group Chief Executive’s total remuneration is 42 times the 
outcomes for employees in each area of the firm to consider whether   mean full-time equivalent total remuneration for UK employees of the 
these are reasonable in light of the performance of each business area  Group (2019: 43 times) and 70 times the median (2019: 72 times), 
and of the Group as a whole, and the resulting constraints of  representing slight reductions on prior year. 
affordability. Remuneration outcomes for individual employees other  
  For more detail on pay in the wider workforce see page 93. For more detail 
on our UK pay ratios see page 95. 
86 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Diversity and our gender pay gap It is the progress that we have made over time to improve gender  G
Individuals’ pay reflects their role, responsibilities, behaviours and  diversity in senior management and other more highly paid roles across  ov
e
contribution. Gender, age, race, sexual orientation, disability, religion,  the Group that has been key to reducing our gender pay gaps. We are  rn
a
socio-economic background or other characteristics are irrelevant when  proud of what we have achieved so far but more needs to be done and  nc
e
it comes to pay determination; we celebrate and value talented  so our focus on increasing representation of diverse talent continues. 
individuals regardless of their characteristics. Our analysis of 
comparable roles continues to show that we reward diverse talent fairly  Our commitment to creating a truly inclusive culture is at the centre of 
for similar work.  our people strategy. We are now targeting 35% female representation 
in senior management by the end of 2023. We are purposefully 
During the year-end compensation review, the management team  broadening our pledges to reflect our wider commitment to ethnicity 
considers salary, bonus and total compensation outcomes through  and disability, as well as to greater gender balance. During 2020 we 
different diversity lenses, based on the data that our people have  continued to encourage our people to complete their diversity profiles, 
provided, to screen for unconscious bias. Last year, we introduced more  to allow us to begin reporting on other measures of diversity, including 
granular analysis of pay outcomes by ethnicity within each of our  ethnicity and disability, and we will continue to do so during 2021. We 
regions and we built on this further this year. Using this, we identified  remain committed to publishing our ethnicity pay gap once 80% of our 
certain populations where pay outcomes warranted further  employees have completed their diversity profiles and we are already at 
investigation. The HR team, supported by senior management, was  over 70% completion. Diversity and inclusion remains a priority for the 
then able to review the pay outcomes with local managers to  Board in 2021 and we will publish our targets later this year. We have 
understand the context and ensure any differentials were justified by  published more information on diversity and gender pay on our 
robust and appropriate factors. By doing this, we were able to satisfy  website at schroders.com/inclusion. 
ourselves that the individual pay outcomes were appropriate and fair. 
Complying with the CRD V remuneration rules
This year we have continued working to increase female representation  The CRD V remuneration rules came into effect in December 2020. 
in senior management roles. Having started with 25% female  These rules apply to Schroder & Co. Limited, our main UK Wealth 
representation in senior management at the end of 2015, we were  Management operating entity. Roles in Schroders that are material risk 
targeting 33% representation by the end of 2019. We fell slightly short  takers in respect of Schroder & Co. Limited are subject to the CRD V 
of that target last year but achieved it during 2020. Female  remuneration requirements. This includes a range of measures 
representation on the GMC has also been increased, from 7% to 29%  including requirements on how the Remuneration Committee should 
since the end of 2015.  be able to risk-adjust remuneration, such as extended clawback periods 
and specific malus and clawback triggers. In some cases this includes a 
The chart below illustrates how our global gender pay gaps for hourly  ‘bonus cap’, limiting variable pay to up to 200% of fixed pay. 
fixed pay have narrowed since 2016, when we first calculated and 
published this data.  Our remuneration approach for many years has been to keep our fixed 
remuneration relatively low, ensuring we are able to control our cost 
base when times are challenging. However, to ensure we can continue 
Our global gender pay gap 
to pay competitively to attract, retain, motivate and reward the talent 
we need to deliver our strategy, the CRD V bonus cap left us with no 
35%
choice but to increase fixed remuneration for a small number of 
impacted roles. The bonus cap does not currently apply to the executive 
Directors of Schroders plc.
30% Annual report on remuneration
This statement from the Remuneration Committee Chairman, together 
with the Remuneration focus in 2021 section on pages 88-89, the 
Remuneration governance section on pages 90-91 and the notes on 
25% pages 92-102, constitute the annual report on remuneration, on which 
shareholders will have an advisory vote at the AGM. Where required 
and indicated, this information has been audited by EY.
20%
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
By order of the Board.
Pay gap for median 
Pay gap for mean Sir Damon Buffini
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
For more detail on female representation and our gender  
pay gap see page 93. 3 March 2021
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 87
Remuneration report continued
Remuneration focus for 2021
The Remuneration Committee’s priorities for 2021
As well as considering the standing items of business, the Committee will also focus on the following areas during 2021:
–  Regulatory developments and the potential impact on the structure of remuneration at Schroders
–  Pay fairness across the workforce
–  Conduct, compliance and risk management in remuneration
Implementation of the remuneration policy for 2021
Executive Directors’ salaries
The Committee did not increase the executive Directors’ salaries during the 2020 compensation review, which are £500,000 for the Group Chief 
Executive and £375,000 for the Chief Financial Officer.
Executive Directors’ maximum total remuneration for 2021
The remuneration policy defines a maximum limit for the total remuneration of each executive Director each year, being the aggregate value of: fixed 
remuneration paid in the year; annual bonus awarded in respect of the year; and the grant-date market value of shares under the LTIP award granted 
following the financial year end. The maximum total remuneration for the current Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer will be 
unchanged, at £9 million and £4.5 million respectively.
Basis for determining executive Directors’ annual bonus awards for performance in 2021
The Committee will determine executive Directors’ bonuses for performance in 2021 based on an annual bonus scorecard across a range of metrics. 
In considering the metrics and the range of targets for each metric, the Committee takes into account the recommendation of the Group Chairman 
and Group Chief Executive, the Board-approved budget, market expectations, prior-year achievement, strategic priorities and the wider economic 
landscape.
In line with 2020, financial performance factors make up 70% of the scorecard. The remaining 30% of the scorecard is based on a combination of 
non-financial factors, namely strategic progress, sustainability, people and talent, risk and conduct and each executive Director’s individual objectives 
for the year. The table below sets out the annual bonus scorecard metrics and weightings for 2021 and the rationale for selecting these metrics. 
How the executive Directors’ annual bonus awards for performance year 2021 will be determined 
Annual bonus scorecard measures Rationale for inclusion Link to strategy
Financial (70% weighting)
Profit before tax and exceptional  A long-standing measure of the Group’s financial performance, which is recognised by 
items (35%)  our stakeholders. The Committee will consider the impact of exceptional items during 
the period and will have the discretion to make adjustments as appropriate.
Client investment performance   Central to our purpose. Represents a core output of our business. 
         
over 3 and 5 years (20%) Helps our clients achieve their long-term financial goals.
Annual net new business (15%) Net new business is a long-standing Group-wide key performance indicator. 
A key driver of AUM and revenues. 
Non-financial (30% weighting)
Strategic progress The Committee will set targets to assess strategic progress, sustainability, retention of 
Sustainability  key talent, conduct and risk metrics. These are all fundamental to the Group’s 
People and talent long-term success. Performance of each executive Director against their agreed 
Risk and conduct annual objectives for 2021 will also be considered.
Personal goals
Grow Asset Management Build closer relationships with end clients Expand Private Assets & Alternatives
For more detail on our strategy see pages 16-17.
The Committee has adopted a robust process for setting targets, in light of budgeted performance, prior-year actual performance and the Group’s 
strategic plans. The Committee and the Board assess subjectively how achievable the budget is as part of the Committee’s work to ensure that targets 
are appropriately stretching. Targets are commercially sensitive and so the target range and the actual performance achieved for each metric will be 
disclosed retrospectively in the annual report on remuneration in respect of 2021, together with commentary for the non-financial factors.
The Committee may apply discretion to adjust annual bonus awards to the extent it judges that the results of the annual bonus scorecard do not align 
with results achieved, or in light of unexpected or unforeseen circumstances. In assessing profit performance, the Committee will consider the impact 
of exceptional items during the period and will have the discretion to make adjustments as appropriate.
88 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
The Committee is able to consider corporate performance on ESG issues when setting remuneration of the executive Directors and is satisfied that the  G
Directors’ remuneration policy and its implementation do not raise ESG risks by inadvertently motivating the wrong behaviours in the executive  ov
e
Directors. The annual performance objectives for the Group Chief Executive include goals relating to sustainability and ESG as an asset manager, as  rn
a
well as goals related to the sustainability of Schroders’ own business policies and practices. Schroders has achieved full ESG integration across our  n
c
e
managed assets and so our client investment performance is derived from ESG-integrated investment processes, which is another mechanism 
through which sustainability and sustainability risks are integrated into remuneration.
The executive Directors’ upfront fund awards and deferred share and fund awards, in respect of performance in both 2020 and in 2021, will be 
granted under the DAP, which shareholders approved at the 2020 AGM.
LTIP awards to be granted in 2021
Page 83 sets out the LTIP awards that the Committee intends to grant to the executive Directors in March 2021, in accordance with the Directors’ 
remuneration policy. These awards will be granted under the LTIP rules that were approved by shareholders in 2020.
As outlined on page 83, the executive Directors have indicated that they intend to give up their 2021 LTIP awards, as they did those granted to them in 
March 2020. If those awards are not actively accepted by the respective executive Directors then under the rules of the LTIP they will lapse.
At the time that they are granted, the vesting of these awards will be based on the same EPS and NNB performance conditions and targets as the 
awards that are expected to vest on 4 March 2021, outlined on page 96, save that the Committee has updated the weightings of the indices that make 
up the composite index against which EPS performance will be measured. The rationale for selecting these metrics is set out below.
How the vesting of LTIP awards to be granted to the executive Directors in March 2021 will be determined 
LTIP measures over four years Rationale for inclusion Link to strategy
Earnings per share growth  Basic earnings per share (EPS) is a Group-wide key performance indicator and supports 
(50% weighting) long-term financial sustainability. We aim to grow earnings per share consistently, recognising 
the potential impact of market volatility on results in the short term. For the LTIP, we target 
adjusted EPS growth over the four-year performance period to be 20-40% higher than the 
growth in a composite index that the Committee believes is a reasonable proxy for the market 
movement of Schroders assets under management.
Cumulative net new  Net new business (NNB) is a Group-wide key performance indicator and is a key driver of 
business (50% weighting) assets under management, and in turn of revenue and profit. We seek to generate positive net 
new business across the Group. For the LTIP, we target cumulative NNB of £15-25 billion across 
the four-year performance period.
Read more about the LTIP awards that the Committee intends to grant to the executive Directors in March 2021 on page 83.
The Committee reviewed the make-up of Schroders assets under management at 31 December 2020 to determine the indices and weightings  
that will make up the composite index, as a proxy for the market movement of Schroders assets under management. For awards to be granted in 
March 2021, the following weighted basket of indices will be used:
Weighting
Index %
Morgan Stanley Capital International (MSCI) All Countries Asia Pacific 15
MSCI All Countries World 15
MSCI Emerging Markets 10
MSCI Europe 5
FTSE All Share 5
Bloomberg Barclays Global Aggregate 50
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 89
Remuneration report continued
Remuneration governance
Responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee
The responsibilities of the Committee include:
–  Reviewing the Group’s remuneration strategy and recommending the Directors’ remuneration policy to the Board
–  Determining the remuneration of the Group Chairman and the executive Directors within the policy approved by shareholders
–  Determining the level and structure of remuneration for other senior executives and the Group Company Secretary; reviewing the remuneration of 
the Heads of Compliance, Risk, Internal Audit; monitoring the level and structure of remuneration for other material risk takers; and overseeing 
remuneration more broadly across the Group
–  Recommending to the Board the annual spend on fixed and variable remuneration
–  Reviewing the design and operation of share-based remuneration, of other deferred remuneration plans and of employee carried interest-sharing 
arrangements
–  Overseeing any major change in the employee benefits structure throughout the Group
–  Reviewing remuneration disclosures and ensuring compliance with relevant requirements
–  Receiving and considering feedback from shareholders and representative shareholder bodies
The Committee’s terms of reference are available on our website at schroders.com/ir.
Remuneration Committee independence
All members of the Committee are independent non-executive Directors. Biographical details and the experience of Committee members are set out 
on pages 58-59.
Key areas of focus during the year
The table below summarises the key issues that the Committee considered at each of its meetings during 2020. Remuneration packages for 
new hires or severance arrangements for roles subject to the Committee’s oversight and regulatory developments were reviewed at each 
meeting as required.
Meeting date Key issues considered
January –  Compensation outcomes for 2019
February –  Compensation outcomes for 2019 –  Executive Directors’ annual bonus scorecards for 2020
–  Conduct review –  Performance conditions for 2020 LTIP grants
–  Remuneration disclosures –  Remuneration arrangements and carried interest-sharing 
–  Forecast vesting of 2016 LTIP grants arrangements in particular business areas
–  New deferred incentive plan rules
2 March –  Executive Directors’ remuneration policy and shareholder voting expectations
25 March  –  Covid-19 and the approach to pay and conditions  –  Covid-19 and Directors’ remuneration
for the wider workforce
May –  CRD V remuneration implications –  Shareholder and voting agency feedback on remuneration
–  Review of advisers to the Committee –  Remuneration Committee best practice
July –  CRD V remuneration implications –  Potential executive Directors’ remuneration policy changes
September –  CRD V remuneration implications –  CRD V remuneration policy for material risk takers other than 
–  Executive Directors’ remuneration policy the executive Directors
October –  CRD V remuneration implications –  Executive Directors’ annual bonus scorecards for 2020
–  Compensation review 2020 –  Remuneration arrangements in particular business areas
–  Gender and ethnicity pay data –  Material risk taker framework and population
–  Approval of deferred remuneration grants for  –  Internal audit of remuneration compliance
sustained high performance and potential
December –  CRD V remuneration implications –  Executive Directors’ annual bonus scorecards for 2020
–  Executive Directors’ remuneration policy –  Executive Directors’ annual bonus scorecards for 2021
–  CRD V remuneration policy for material risk takers  –  Forecast vesting of 2017 LTIP grants
other than the executive Directors –  Remuneration arrangements and carried interest-sharing 
–  Compensation review 2020 arrangements in particular business areas
–  Sustainability of earnings –  Remuneration benchmarking
–  Risk, legal, compliance and internal audit matters –  Group risk adjustment framework for remuneration
–  Pay and conditions for the wider workforce –  Total compensation ratio target for 2021
90 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Internal advisers
G
o
At the invitation of the Committee Chairman, the Group Chairman attended nine meetings, the Group Chief Executive attended seven meetings and  v
e
the Chief Financial Officer attended eight meetings. rn
a
n
c
e
The Group Head of Risk, the General Counsel, the Global Head of Compliance and the Group Head of Internal Audit advised the Committee on 
matters that could influence remuneration decisions and were available to attend meetings if required. The Global Head of Human Resources, the 
Head of Compensation and Benefits and the Head of Compensation attended meetings to provide advice and support the Committee.
To avoid conflicts of interest, no Director or employee participates in decisions determining his or her own remuneration.
External advisers
The Committee appointed PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) and McLagan (Aon) Limited (McLagan) to provide advice on executive Director pay 
during 2020. Advisers were selected on the recommendation of the Global Head of Human Resources and the Head of Compensation and Benefits. 
The Committee assesses the performance of its advisers, the associated fees and the quality of advice provided annually, to ensure that the advice is 
independent of any support provided to management.
PwC attended eight meetings as independent Remuneration Committee advisers. The Committee retained PwC in this role as their team are among 
the market leaders in this area, with a good understanding of the Group. A fixed fee structure has operated since appointment to cover standard 
services, with any additional items charged on a time/cost basis. The total fees paid for advice to the Committee during 2020 on executive Director pay 
totalled £99,000. PwC also provides professional services in the ordinary course of business, including HR consulting services and advice to 
management on remuneration design and its regulatory implications, tax, social security, governance, operational and technical issues, as well as 
other professional services including tax, consulting, regulatory compliance, support for corporate acquisitions and other advice to the Group. 
The Committee utilised McLagan data on market conditions and competitive rates of pay, as McLagan provides remuneration benchmarking data 
covering a wide cross section of the Group’s competitors, including firms that are not publicly listed and so are not required to publish their directors’ 
remuneration. The total fees paid for advice to the Committee during 2020 on executive Director pay totalled £2,000. The Committee is satisfied that 
the advice received from McLagan was independent and objective, as it was factual and not judgemental. McLagan is part of Aon plc, which also 
provides advice and services to the Group in relation to pension benefit valuations and pension actuarial advice. McLagan’s fees were charged on the 
basis of a fixed fee for the preparation of reports setting out the information requested.
Neither PwC nor McLagan has a connection to the Company or any individual Director, save as outlined above.
Evaluating the performance of the Committee
The annual evaluation of the Committee’s effectiveness was undertaken as part of the overall Board evaluation process. The findings relating to the 
Committee were discussed with the Committee Chairman. The feedback on the Committee was wholly positive. It is chaired effectively, reports to the 
Board are seen as high quality and there was recognition that the adoption of the new Directors’ remuneration policy was well managed.
Compliance with the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code)
The Code requires a description of how the Remuneration Committee has addressed the following factors: 
Code requirements How the Committee has addressed the requirement
Clarity – remuneration arrangements should be transparent  –  Prospective disclosure of bonus and LTIP metrics (pages 88-89)
and promote effective engagement with shareholders and  –  Full retrospective disclosure of financial targets and non-financial factors  
the workforce (pages 81-84)
–  Consultation with shareholders regarding possible policy changes (page 78)
Simplicity – remuneration structures should avoid  –  Executive Directors incentivised via annual bonus with deferral and LTIP (page 76)
complexity and their rationale and operation should be easy  –  Clear disclosure of rationale and operation of each element (see Directors’ 
to understand remuneration policy)
Risk – remuneration arrangements should ensure  –  Defined maximum limit for annual total remuneration (page 76)
reputational and other risks from excessive rewards, and  –  Significant deferral, providing alignment to clients and shareholders (page 76)
behavioural risks that can arise from target-based incentive  –  Committee discretion to adjust formulaic bonus or LTIP outcomes (page 80)
plans, are identified and mitigated –  Extensive malus and clawback provisions (see Directors’ remuneration policy)
Predictability – the range of possible values of rewards to  –  Scenario charts and key Committee discretions outlined (see Directors’ 
individual directors and any other limits or discretions should  remuneration policy)
be identified and explained at the time of approving the policy –  Regular Committee review of likely bonus scorecard outcomes (page 90)
Proportionality – the link between individual awards, the  –  Annual bonus and LTIP performance measures reviewed annually against strategic 
delivery of strategy and the long-term performance of the  priorities (pages 88-89)
company should be clear. Outcomes should not reward  –  Significant deferral, providing alignment to clients and shareholders (page 76)
poor performance –  Extensive malus and clawback provisions (see Directors’ remuneration policy)
Alignment to culture – incentive schemes should drive  –  Remuneration principles aligned to our purpose (page 77)
behaviours consistent with company purpose, values  –  Executive Director remuneration considered in the context of employee outcomes 
and strategy (pages 85-86)
–  Commitment to pay fairness across the workforce (page 86)
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 91
Remuneration report continued
Notes to the annual report on remuneration
The notes set out on pages 92-102 supplement the information set out in the main narrative on pages 75-87, combining both statutory and voluntary 
disclosures, including additional detail on matters within the narrative and other elements that do not fit within that narrative.
Annual bonus pool and annual bonus award allocations across the Group – additional detail
The table below compares the annual bonus pools for performance years 2020 and 2019, divided into amounts paid in cash, upfront fund awards and 
amounts deferred into share awards and fund awards. The 2019 figures are shown after adjustment to reflect the foreign exchange rates used during 
the 2020 compensation review, to provide a better comparison of what was awarded to employees each year. The bonus pool is shown on the basis 
of the amounts awarded to employees in respect of performance each year, rather than the costs charged to each year’s income statement, and 
includes amounts that are reported as exceptional items as they relate to cost-reduction programmes.
2020 20191
Total compensation ratio 45% 44%
£m £m
Annual bonus awards:
–  paid in cash 178.8 179.2
–  granted in upfront fund awards 29.1 27.0
–  deferred into share awards 51.8 48.0
–  deferred into fund awards 44.3 44.0
Bonus pool 304.0 298.2
Proportion of bonus pool that is deferred 32% 31%
Number of bonus-eligible employees 4,663 4,365
Mean annual bonus award per bonus-eligible employee £65,188 £68,319
Median annual bonus award per bonus-eligible employee £14,000 £15,500
Group Chief Executive’s bonus as a % of the bonus pool 1.8% 1.9%
Aggregate bonuses to executive Directors as a % of the bonus pool 2.6% 2.7%
1. Adjusted to the same foreign exchange rates as those used for the 2020 figures.
 
The employee mean and median figures in the table above represent the bonus value across all bonus-eligible employees each year. As such, part of 
the difference in value year-on-year is due to differences in population, from new hires and leavers, as well as higher or lower bonus awards for 
individual employees who were employed by Schroders both years.
Relative spend on pay chart – additional detail
The charts below illustrate the relative spend on pay for 2020 compared with 2019. The values are taken from the financial statements and show how 
remuneration costs before exceptional items compare with shareholder distributions, taxes arising and earnings retained, to illustrate how net 
income is utilised. 
2019 2020
vs. vs.
2018 2019
Fixed r  emuneration £562.9m +9% Fixed r  emuneration £589.9m +5%
15% Variable remuneration £200.1m (8)% 14% Variable remuneration £207.8m +4%
26% 27%
– upfront – upfront
12% 12%
Variable remuneration  £82.0m(20)% Variable remuneration  £94.5m+15%
11% 9% – deferred 10% 10% – deferred
4% Other operating expenses £496.3m +8% 4% Other operating expenses £502.2m +1%
23% Corporate tax and  £222.8m (2)% 23% Corporate tax and  £216.0m (3)%
social security1 social security1
Retained earnings £248.2m(13)% Retained earnings £256.8m +3%
Interim dividend paid and £312.5m +0% Interim dividend paid and £312.0m 0%
ﬁnal dividend recommended ﬁnal dividend recommended
1. Corporate tax and social security includes employer’s social security costs, which for 2020 was equal to 4% of net income (2019: 4%).
92 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Pay in the wider workforce – additional detail  Female representation and gender pay – additional detail
G
o
The table below compares, for each of base salary or fees, benefits and  Schroders is committed to promoting diversity of thought and ensuring  v
e
annual bonus award, the percentage change from performance year  Schroders is an inclusive place to work. That commitment is broader  rn
a
2019 to 2020 for each of the Directors with the average year-on-year  than gender and the Our people section on pages 34-37 provides more  nc
e
percentage change across employees of the Group taken as a whole.  information on the Group’s approach to inclusion and diversity.
The outcome for employees of Schroders plc is also included as this is a 
statutory requirement but is shown as not applicable as the legal entity  The data below illustrates the gender representation issue by looking at 
Schroders plc does not itself have any employees.  the proportion of employees by gender according to quartile pay 
bands, based on hourly fixed pay, which reflects base salary and any 
The values shown for the executive Directors are based on those shown  cash allowances.
in the single total remuneration figure table on page 94 while those 
shown for the non-executive Directors are based on those shown in the  The proportion of female vs. male employees according to quartile pay bands
non-executive Directors remuneration table on page 98. The employee  Top quartile of employees  
mean and median figures in this table represent the change  based on hourly fixed pay 26% females, 74% males
experienced for individual employees who were employed by Schroders  2nd quartile 38% females, 62% males
both years, as outlined in the notes to the table.
3rd quartile 49% females, 51% males
2020 Bottom quartile 55% females, 45% males
  Base salary / fee Benefits Bonus Total workforce 42% females, 58% males
Executive Directors
Peter Harrison1  +0% –45% –4% Analysis of pay levels for comparable roles across Schroders shows that 
Richard Keers1  +0% –3% +2% male and female employees are paid fairly for similar work. However, 
the lower representation of women at senior levels within the Group, 
Non-executive Directors
which is an issue across the financial services sector, is reflected in the 
Michael Dobson +0% –35% n/a
gender pay gaps shown below. This looks across the total workforce 
Sir Damon Buffini2 +20% n/a n/a and sets out the gender pay gap for both hourly fixed pay and total 
Rhian Davies2 +13% n/a n/a variable pay, consisting of the annual bonus awarded in respect of 2020 
Claire Fitzalan Howard n/a n/a n/a plus any other incentive awards during the year.
Rakhi Goss-Custard +0% n/a n/a
Schroders globally
Ian King +0% n/a n/a Hourly  The amount by which the male 
Leonie Schroder2 +24% n/a n/a fixed pay median exceeds the female median,  26%
Deborah Waterhouse2 +47% n/a n/a as a % of the male median (2019: 27%)
Matthew Westerman n/a n/a n/a The amount by which the male 
mean exceeds the female mean,  26%
Former Directors
as a % of the male mean (2019: 27%)
Philip Mallinckrodt –67% n/a n/a
Total  The amount by which the male 
Employees variable  median exceeds the female median,  46%
Employees of Schroders plc  n/a n/a n/a pay as a % of the male median (2019: 50%)
Employees of the Group3,4,5 The amount by which the male 
–  Mean +4% +2% +7% mean exceeds the female mean,  57%
as a % of the male mean (2019: 58%)
–  Median +2% +3% +0%
The proportion of female and  93% of females, 
male employees who received  94% of males 
1. The value of benefits for Peter Harrison and Richard Keers decreased by 
45% and 3% respectively, principally reflecting reduced usage of a car and  variable pay (2019: 92% / 91%)
driver and slightly lower income protection and life assurance costs after 
these were renegotiated effective 1 May 2019. 
These statistics, and the chart on page 87 showing how our gender pay 
2. The fee increases shown for Damon Buffini, Rhian Davies, Leonie Schroder 
and Deborah Waterhouse reflect the timing of their appointment to the  gaps have narrowed since we first published them in 2016, 
Board and appointment to roles on Board Committees, as set out on page  demonstrate the continued improvement in our gender pay gaps, 
98. The fees for the non-executive Directors were not changed in 2020. although there remains more to do. 
3. For base salary, employees of the Group are those who were in 
employment for the full year to 31 December 2020 and represents the 
 For more information on diversity and inclusion at Schroders,  
mean and median salary increase during 2020. Salary increases across the 
including our UK gender pay gap disclosures, see our website at  
Group during 2020 were targeted at employees whose roles had 
schroders.com/inclusion
increased in scope materially during the year and those whose fixed pay 
significantly lagged behind market rates. Particular attention was also 
given to those on lower salaries, for whom fixed pay forms a greater 
proportion of total remuneration. 
4. For benefits, the mean percentage change for employees of the Group is 
a per capita figure for those who were in employment for all of 2020 and 
2019 and represents the average change in benefits value during 2020, 
while the median is the median percentage change of individual 
employees within the same population. The increase principally reflects 
salary increases over the period, offset for those in the UK by slightly lower 
income protection and life assurance costs after these were renegotiated 
effective 1 May 2019. 
5. For bonus, the mean and median percentage change for employees of 
the Group is the mean and the median respectively of the individual 
year-on-year percentage change in bonus for employees who were in 
employment and bonus-eligible for all of 2020 and 2019. More commentary 
on the annual bonus award for each executive Director can be found on 
pages 80-83.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 93
Remuneration report continued 
Single total remuneration figure for each executive Director – additional detail (audited)
The total remuneration of each of the executive Directors for the years ended 31 December 2020 and 31 December 2019 is set out below.
Benefits  Initial  Discretionary 
Base   and  Retirement  Total   scorecard  annual bonus  Annual   LTIP   Total   Total 
2020 (£’000) salary allowances benefits fixed pay outcome reduction bonus award vested variable pay remuneration
Peter Harrison 500 9 45 554 5,678 (250) 5,428 295 5,723 6,277
Richard Keers 375 6 45 426 2,503 (100) 2,403 196 2,599 3,025
Total 875 15 90 980 8,181 (350) 7,831 491 8,322 9,302
2019 (£’000)
Peter Harrison 500 16 45 561 – – 5,680 212 5,892 6,453
Richard Keers 375 7 45 427 – – 2,350 159 2,509 2,936
Total 875 23 90 988 – – 8,030 371 8,401 9,389
The methodology for determining the single total remuneration figure is set out below. A chart illustrating the figures above can be found on page 84.
Base salary Represents the value of salary earned and paid during the financial year, before any donations to charity (see 
page 75). 
Benefits and allowances Includes one or more of: private healthcare, life assurance, permanent total disability insurance, Share 
Incentive Plan matching shares and private use of a company car and driver. 
Retirement benefits  Represents the aggregate of contributions to defined contribution (DC) pension arrangements and cash in 
– see page 97 lieu of pension for Peter Harrison, and cash in lieu of pension for Richard Keers. 
Page 97 shows how the retirement benefits figures above are comprised for each Director. 
Annual bonus award  Represents the total value of the annual bonus award for performance during the relevant financial year. 
– see pages 80-83 plus 
additional detail on page 96 The column headed ‘Initial scorecard outcome’ represents what the annual bonus award would have been 
based solely on the annual bonus scorecard. In determining this, the Committee acknowledged the societal 
impact of Covid-19 and marked the non-financial elements of the scorecard below the level that would 
otherwise be expected based on the executive Directors’ performance against the pre-determined 
scorecard targets. 
The column headed ‘Discretionary annual bonus reduction’ shows the Committee’s further one-off reduction 
from that initial scorecard outcome for 2020, given the extraordinary circumstances of 2020, to reach the 
actual annual bonus award for each executive Director.
Pages 80-83 set out the basis on which annual bonus awards for 2020 were determined. Page 96 breaks down the annual 
bonus awards for 2020 into cash paid through the payroll in February 2021 and the upfront fund awards, deferred fund 
awards and deferred share awards that will be granted in March 2021. 
LTIP vested  Represents the estimated value that is expected to vest on 4 March 2021 from LTIP awards granted on  
– see page 84 plus additional  6 March 2017, using the average closing mid-market share price over the three months ended 31 December 
detail on pages 96-97 2020 and the percentage of the awards that is expected to vest. 
The comparative value shown for 2019 represents the actual value that vested on 5 March 2020 from LTIP 
awards granted on 7 March 2016. The 2019 LTIP vested values disclosed last year were estimates, as the 
Annual Report and Accounts was finalised prior to the vesting date.
Page 84 sets out the performance achieved and how vesting will be determined, with further detail on page 96, and page 97 
shows how the value shown above has been calculated, including how much of the value is attributable to share price 
movement during the period from grant to vesting.
Page 99 sets out information on LTIP awards granted to the executive Directors during 2020, which the Directors 
subsequently waived. These awards are not reflected above. Page 83 sets out information on LTIP awards to be granted to 
the executive Directors in March 2021. The executive Directors have indicated that they intend not to accept these awards. 
Again, these are not reflected above. 
94 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
The Group Chief Executive’s total remuneration over the last 10 years – additional detail
G
o
The table below sets out the Group Chief Executive’s single total remuneration figure over the 10 years ended 31 December 2020, as well as showing  v
e
how variable pay plans have paid out each year. A chart illustrating the single total remuneration figures over this period, and comparing them to the  rn
a
total shareholder return of Schroders shares and of the FTSE 100, is shown on page 85. nc
e
Financial year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 20163 20164 2017 2018 2019 2020
Michael Dobson Peter Harrison
Single total remuneration figure (£’000) 5,570 4,870 8,414 8,155 8,905 2,451 6,311 7,059 6,735 6,453 6,277
Annual bonus award (outcome as a % of maximum, or actual 
award as a % of 10-year highest bonus)1 65% 56% 81% 87% 100% 25% 70% 82% 78% 72% 69%
LTIP (vesting as a % of maximum)2 n/a n/a 100% 50% 50% 50% 50% n/a 0% 50% 50%
1. For performance year 2020, this represents the Group Chief Executive’s actual annual bonus award as a percentage of the maximum annual bonus award for 
the year. For performance years prior to 2020, each annual bonus award is shown as a percentage of the highest bonus award over the past 10 years, as no 
maximum annual bonus opportunity was in place.
2. 2011 and 2012 are shown as ‘n/a’ as the LTIP was introduced in May 2010 and so there was no LTIP vesting outcome in those years. The first LTIP award 
vested on 5 March 2014 based on the four-year performance period ended on 31 December 2013 and so is shown under 2013 in the table. 2017 shows as ‘n/a’ 
as Peter Harrison did not receive an LTIP award in 2014 and so had no LTIP due to vest based on performance to the end of 2017.
3. The 2016 remuneration for Michael Dobson reflects the actual remuneration that he received for the portion of 2016 that he served as Chief Executive.
4. Peter Harrison was appointed Group Chief Executive on 3 April 2016. The 2016 remuneration value above reflects his full-year single total remuneration figure.
UK pay ratios – additional detail
The table below compares the Group Chief Executive’s single total remuneration figure for 2020 to the remuneration of the Group’s UK workforce as 
at 31 December 2020, along with the comparative figures for the previous year.
Pay ratio to   Pay ratio to   Pay ratio to  
Method upper quartile UK employee median UK employee lower quartile UK employee
2020 Option A 42: 1 70: 1 110: 1
2019 Option A 42: 1 72: 1 117: 1
The rules that require this disclosure to be made set out three possible methodologies that companies can adopt, termed Options A, B and C. The 
Group has adopted Option A as this is the most robust methodology, requiring the Group to calculate the pay and benefits of all its UK employees for 
the relevant financial year in order to identify the total remuneration at the upper quartile, at the median and at the lower quartile. We have based the 
calculation of these total remuneration quartiles on salaries as at 31 December 2020 plus any annual bonus award in respect of 2020 and any other 
incentive awards granted during 2020. In calculating these ratios, salary and any annual bonus award for employees who work part time have been 
pro-rated up to a full-time equivalent. We have not included any taxable travel benefits, such as the reimbursement of occasional travel home from 
work that was covered by the Group’s travel and expenses policy but did not qualify as tax-free under HMRC rules on taxable benefits. No other 
assumptions or statistical modelling were required.
Upper quartile UK employee  Median UK employee Lower quartile UK employee
Total pay and  Total pay and  Total pay and 
£ Method benefits Total salary benefits Total salary benefits Total salary
2020 Option A 150,310 122,500 89,541 58,000 57,205 45,000
2019 Option A 154,667 85,000 89,743 68,000 55,400 50,000
Comparing the ratios for 2020 with those for 2019, the pay ratio to the upper quartile UK employee is unchanged, while the pay ratio to the median 
employee has reduced slightly and to the lower quartile employee has reduced more significantly. In part this is attributable to the reduction 
year-on-year in the Group Chief Executive’s single total remuneration figure, which is 3% lower for 2020 compared to 2019. The upper quartile 
employee total remuneration is also 3% lower for 2020 compared to 2019 and so the pay ratio to the upper quartile employee is consistent year-on-
year. The median UK employee total remuneration is down only marginally year-on-year, by less than half of 1%, and so the reduction in the median 
pay ratio is largely attributable to the reduction in the Group Chief Executive’s remuneration. The lower quartile UK employee total remuneration is 3% 
higher for 2020 compared to 2019. This increase combined with the reduction in the Group Chief Executive’s remuneration drives the reduction in the 
pay ratio to the lower quartile employee. 
As well as new hires and leavers in the normal course of business, the changes to the total pay for the upper quartile, median and lower quartile UK 
employee also reflect some structural changes to our workforce, including moving some contractors into employee roles and the relocation of some 
operational roles that were based in London and Luxembourg to our Horsham campus. The slight narrowing of the median pay ratio and more 
significant narrowing of the pay ratio to the lower quartile UK employee is consistent with the Group’s focus on pay fairness across the workforce, 
particularly for the Group’s lower-paid employees, as outlined on pages 85-86, and as such the Group believes these outcomes to be consistent with 
the pay and reward policies for the Group’s UK employees as a whole.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 95
Remuneration report continued 
Variable pay – annual bonus award – additional detail (audited)
The table below sets out details of how the annual bonus award for each executive Director for performance during 2020 was structured. The total 
annual bonus award values are reflected in the single total remuneration figure for each executive Director on page 94. The table also shows the face 
value of the LTIP award granted during 2020 (see page 99) and the percentage of variable pay deferred across annual bonus and LTIP combined.
DAP award LTIP award
Percentage of
Upfront cash  Upfront   Deferred  Deferred  Total   Total annual  Percentage LTIP granted  total variable
2020 (£’000) bonus award fund award share award  fund award DAP award bonus award deferred1 during 2020 pay deferred1
Peter Harrison 1,123 1,123 2,387 795 4,305 5,428 59% 600 63%
Richard Keers 506 506 1,043 348 1,897 2,403 58% 400 64%
1. In calculating the value of each executive Director’s annual bonus award that is deferred, the amount of the bonus that is deferred is reduced to reflect the 
LTIP award granted during the year, subject to a minimum 60% of total variable pay being deferred.
Upfront fund awards normally cannot be exercised for six months from grant but are not at risk of forfeiture if the holder resigns and leaves the 
Group. Deferred share awards normally require the holder to remain in employment for three years following grant to vest in full and are available to 
exercise in three equal instalments after 1, 2 and 3 years from grant. Deferred fund awards normally require the holder to remain in employment for 
3.5 years following grant to vest in full and are available to exercise in three equal instalments after 1.5, 2.5 and 3.5 years from grant.
Variable pay – determining vesting of prior LTIP awards – additional detail (audited)
The LTIP awards granted on 6 March 2017, covering the 2017 to 2020 performance period, are expected to vest on 4 March 2021. The criteria for 
determining the extent of vesting are set out below. Despite the strong performance of Schroders since these awards were granted, the very 
demanding EPS target will not be met.
Performance measure Maximum %  Performance achieved Vesting %
of award of award
EPS 50 The four-year growth in the composite index was  0
If the growth of adjusted EPS in the fourth year compared with  26.7% (see below). Four-year growth in adjusted EPS 
the year prior to grant exceeds the defined composite index by: was 5.8%, which is less than the composite index and 
is insufficient to trigger any vesting of this part of the 
– less than 20% no vesting 
LTIP awards.
– equal to 20% 12.5% vests 
– between 20-40% straight-line basis
– 40% or greater 50% vests
NNB cumulative over the four-year performance period: 50 The four-year cumulative NNB from 2017 to 2020  50
was £86.0 billion, which is sufficient to trigger full 
– less than £15 billion no vesting 
vesting of this part of the LTIP awards.
– equal to £15 billion 12.5% vests 
– between £15-25 billion straight-line basis
– £25 billion or greater 50% vests
Total expected to vest in relation to 2017 to 2020 performance 50
The Audit and Risk Committee independently reviews key estimates made by management that impact the financial statements to ensure these are 
reasonable. This is reflected in the LTIP vesting calculations.
The composite index against which EPS performance was measured for these awards was set at the time they were granted. The table below sets out 
the make-up of that composite index and its growth over the four-year performance period:
Growth over the four-year 
Index Weighting performance period
MSCI All Countries Asia Pacific  15.0% 47.1%
MSCI All Countries World  15.0% 52.6%
MSCI Emerging Markets  7.5% 48.5%
FTSE All Share  7.5% 10.0%
MSCI Europe  5.0% 26.0%
Bloomberg Barclays Global Aggregate  50.0% 12.0%
Composite index (calculated as a weighted average) 26.7%
96 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Variable pay – estimated value vesting from prior LTIP awards – additional detail (audited)
G
o
The following table shows, for each Director, the estimated value expected to vest on 4 March 2021 from LTIP awards granted on 6 March 2017, based  v
e
on the average closing mid-market share price over the three months ended 31 December 2020 and the expected vesting percentage shown on page  rn
a
96. For each executive Director, the total value expected to vest is reflected in the single total remuneration figures on page 94. Awards are over  nc
e
ordinary shares.
Value of shares expected to vest (£’000)
Proportion expected 
Grant-date face  to vest in relation   Impact of dividend  Impact of share 
value of LTIP award  to 2017-2020  Face value at   equivalents since price movement  Total estimated  Number of shares 
Individual £’000 performance time of grant grant1 since grant value vesting expected to vest
Peter Harrison 600 50% 300 – (5) 295 9,768
Richard Keers 400 50% 200 – (4) 196 6,512
1. The LTIP rules under which these awards were granted do not allow for awards to accrue additional value equivalent to dividends on the underlying shares. 
Fixed pay – retirement benefits – additional detail (audited)
The following table shows details of retirement benefits provided to executive Directors for the years ended 31 December 2020 and 31 December 
2019. For the executive Directors, the sum of employer contributions and cash in lieu each year is reflected in the single total remuneration figures on 
page 94. Employer contributions represent contributions paid into DC pension arrangements during the year and exclude any contributions made by 
the Directors. There has been no defined benefit (DB) pension accrual since 30 April 2011.
Accrued DB 
pension at   Normal  
2020 employer  2020 cash in lieu 2020 retirement  2019 employer  2019 cash in lieu 2019 retirement  31 December retirement
£’000 contributions of pension1 benefits total contributions of pension1 benefits total 2020 age2
Peter Harrison 10 35 45 10 35 45 – 60
Richard Keers – 45 45 – 45 45 – 60
1. Peter Harrison received a combination of employer contributions to the Group’s DC pension arrangement and cash in lieu of pension contributions, and 
Richard Keers received cash in lieu of pension contributions.
2. Normal retirement age is the earliest age at which a Director can elect to draw their pension under the rules of the Schroders Retirement Benefits Scheme 
without the need to seek the consent of the Company or the pension scheme trustee. 
 
Fees from external appointments
The executive Directors are permitted to retain for their own benefit fees they receive from any external non-executive directorships, provided the 
directorships do not relate to any interest held by the Group. Neither Peter Harrison nor Richard Keers received any fees in respect of external 
non-executive roles during 2020.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 97
Remuneration report continued 
Non-executive Directors’ remuneration (audited)
The total remuneration of each of the non-executive Directors for the years ended 31 December 2020 and 31 December 2019 is set out below, based 
on the structure of non-executive Directors’ fees set out below the table.
2020 2019
Committee Committee  Taxable  Committee  Committee  Taxable 
£’000 Basic fee chairman member SID benefits Total Basic fee chairman member SID benefits Total
Michael Dobson 625 – – – 11 636 625 – – – 17 642
Sir Damon Buffini 80 25 20 – – 125 80 4 20 – – 104
Rhian Davies 80 25 40 – 1 146 80 25 23 – – 128
Claire Fitzalan Howard 53 – – – 1 54 – – – – – –
Rakhi Goss-Custard 80 – 20 – 2 102 80 – 20 – – 100
Ian King 80 – 20 20 1 121 80 – 20 20 – 120
Leonie Schroder 80 – – – 1 81 65 – – – – 65
Deborah Waterhouse 80 – 20 – 1 101 65 – 3 – – 68
Matthew Westerman 65 – 19 – – 84 – – – – – –
Philip Mallinckrodt 27 – – – – 27 80 – – – – 80
The fees shown in each Director’s case reflect the portion of 2019 and 2020 that they each served in their respective roles, and are shown before any 
donations to charity (see page 75).
–  Leonie Schroder and Deborah Waterhouse were appointed to the Board with effect from 11 March 2019. Matthew Westerman was appointed to 
the Board with effect from 9 March 2020. Claire Fitzalan Howard was appointed to the Board with effect from 30 April 2020. In each case, on 
appointment as non-executive Directors their fees were set at the same level as for other non-executive Directors.
–  On 6 November 2019, Sir Damon Buffini was appointed Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, Rhian Davies was appointed a member of the 
Remuneration Committee and Deborah Waterhouse was appointed a member of the Audit and Risk Committee. Matthew Westerman was 
appointed a member of the Audit and Risk Committee from his appointment to the Board on 9 March 2020 and was appointed a member of the 
Remuneration Committee on 19 November 2020.
–  Philip Mallinckrodt retired from the Board at the conclusion of the 2020 AGM, on 30 April 2020. His fee ceased on the date he retired.
The benefits for Michael Dobson were private healthcare and medical benefits for him and his family, life assurance, travel expenses and occasional 
private use of a company car and driver. Benefits for Rhian Davies, Claire Fitzalan Howard, Rakhi Goss-Custard, Ian King, Leonie Schroder and 
Deborah Waterhouse were travel expenses.
The fees for the non-executive Directors were not changed in 2020, having last been reviewed during 2019. The structure of non-executive Directors’ 
fees is shown below. Fees are usually reviewed biennially.
£
Chairman 625,000 
Board member 80,000
Senior Independent Director 20,000 
Audit and Risk Committee Chairman1 25,000
Audit and Risk Committee member 20,000
Nominations Committee Chairman nil 
Nominations Committee member nil 
Remuneration Committee Chairman1 25,000
Remuneration Committee member 20,000 
1. In addition to the Committee membership fee.
98 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
DAP and LTIP awards granted during 2020 (audited) G
o
v
The following awards under the DAP were granted to Directors on 11 March 2020 in respect of deferred bonuses for performance during 2019.   e
rn
No further performance conditions need to be met for awards to vest. An upfront fund award cannot be exercised for six months from the date of  a
n
grant but is not normally subject to forfeiture if the holder leaves the Group. Deferred share awards normally require the participant to remain in  ce
employment with the Group for three years after the date of grant to vest in full, or 3.5 years for a deferred fund award. DAP fund awards are 
conditional rights to receive a cash sum with an initial value equal to the value of bonus being deferred, granted as nil-cost options. That value is 
notionally invested in a range of Schroders funds and so the actual amount paid when the award is exercised is the initial amount plus or minus 
returns on those notional investments. DAP share awards are conditional rights to receive Schroders shares, granted as nil-cost options. These awards 
were included in the 2019 single total remuneration figures disclosed last year and form part of the prior year value shown in this year’s single total 
remuneration figures on page 94. They are also shown in the tables of Directors’ rights under fund and share awards on pages 100-101.
Face value at grant (£’000)
Upfront  Deferred  Deferred  Share   Number  
fund  share  fund Total DAP  price at  of 
Individual Basis of DAP award granted awards awards awards award grant shares Performance conditions
Awarded for performance in 
Peter Harrison Deferral of bonus awarded for  1,173 1,667 1,667 4,507 £23.61 70,584
2019. No further performance 
performance in 2019
Richard Keers 495 680 680 1,855 £23.61 28,801 conditions apply.
The following awards under the LTIP were granted to Directors on 11 March 2020 as nil-cost options. Each executive Director subsequently elected 
not to accept their respective awards and so each award was void and took no effect. As a result, they are not reflected in the table of Directors’ rights 
under share awards on page 101. These awards do not appear in the single total remuneration figure on page 94.
% of face value  
Basis of LTIP award  Face value at  Vesting maximum  that would vest Share price Number of End of performance 
Individual granted grant (£’000) as % of face value at threshold1 at grant shares period
A specified face 
Peter Harrison 600 100 25 £23.61 25,412 31 December 2023
value of shares on 
Richard Keers the date of grant 400 100 25 £23.61 16,941 31 December 2023
1. Percentage of face value that would vest if performance under both the EPS and NNB performance measures was at the threshold level to achieve  
non-zero vesting.
All DAP share awards and LTIP awards were granted over ordinary shares. The number of shares under each DAP share award and LTIP award is 
determined by dividing the grant-date face value by the mid-market closing share price on the last trading day prior to the date of grant.
Vesting of LTIP awards granted during 2020 was subject to the same performance conditions as applied to awards expected to vest following the end 
of 2019, which are set out on page 96, save that the composite index for the measurement of EPS performance for these awards was as follows:
Weighting
Index %
MSCI All Countries Asia Pacific 15
MSCI All Countries World 15
MSCI Emerging Markets 10
MSCI Europe 5
FTSE All Share 5
Bloomberg Barclays Global Aggregate 50
 
Directors’ service contracts and letters of appointment
Each of the executive Directors has a rolling service contract with a mutual notice period of six months. Each of the non-executive Directors has a letter 
of appointment with a mutual notice period of six months. Letters of appointment and service contracts are available for shareholders to view at the 
Company’s registered office on business days between the hours of 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. and will be available at each AGM.
 
Payments for loss of office and payments to former Directors (audited)
No payments for loss of office were paid to Directors or former Directors during 2020. No other payments were made to former Directors during 
2020.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 99
Remuneration report continued 
For the purposes of the personal shareholding policy, rights to shares 
Personal shareholding policy – additional detail 
include the estimated after-tax value of unvested deferred share 
(audited)
awards under the DAP or previous incentive plans (shown as ‘Other 
To align the interests of senior management with those of  unvested share awards’ on page 101) and of vested DAP or LTIP awards 
shareholders, the executive Directors and the other members of the  (shown as ‘Vested but unexercised share awards’ on page 101) but do 
GMC are required, over time, to acquire and retain a holding of  not include unvested LTIP awards as these rights to shares are subject 
Schroders shares or rights to shares. The required shareholding is  to performance conditions.
equivalent to 500% of base salary for the Group Chief Executive, 300% 
of base salary for other executive Directors and 150-300% of base salary  The charts on page 78 compare the value of each executive Director’s 
for other members of the GMC depending on their role. Each executive  shareholdings as at 2 March 2021 with the shareholding required under 
Director and GMC member undertakes not to sell any Schroders shares  the personal shareholding policy, as a percentage of salary, including 
until their share ownership target has been reached, subject to some  the LTIP awards expected to vest on 4 March 2021 (see pages 96-97) 
limited exceptions. The executive Directors’ service contracts provide  and DAP deferred share awards to be granted in respect of 
that, on stepping down as an executive Director, the level of  performance in 2020 (see page 96).
shareholding required while an executive Director must be maintained 
for a further two years, or the actual level of shareholding on stepping 
down if lower. 
Executive Directors’ alignment to share price
The table below shows the number of shares currently owned by each executive Director, the number of shares over which they have been or will be 
granted rights under the Group’s incentive plans and the estimated after-tax value of those shares, on the same basis as outlined above.
As at 31 December 2020 Rights to shares  Estimated after-tax value (£’000)
SIP shares  LTIP shares  to be granted 
acquired in  expected to  under the DAP  At the   At the   Impact of a 10% 
Shares   Rights to   January and  vest 4 March  Total share   in March 2021  2 March 2020  2 March 2021  share price 
Individual owned shares February 2021 2021 exposure (£000) share price share price Difference movement
Peter Harrison 4,868 193,446 13 9,768 208,095 2,387 4,458 5,250 793 525
Richard Keers 830 88,900 13 6,512 96,255 1,043 2,011 2,373 362 237
Directors’ rights under fund and share awards, and Directors’ share interests
This section outlines Directors’ rights during 2020 from fund and share awards granted under the Group’s incentive plans. It goes on to set out the 
total interests in shares of the Directors and their connected persons at 31 December 2020.
Directors’ rights under fund awards (audited)
Directors had the following rights under fund awards granted under the Group’s incentive plans, based on the award values at grant.
Unvested fund  Vested fund 
awards awards Total
£’000 £’000 £’000
Peter Harrison At 31 December 2019 4,440 – 4,440
Granted 1,667 1,173 2,840
Vested (2,593) 2,593 –
Exercised – (3,766) (3,766)
At 31 December 2020 3,514 – 3,514
Richard Keers At 31 December 2019 1,882 267 2,149
Granted 680 495 1,175
Vested (1,112) 1,112 –
Exercised – (1,874) (1,874)
At 31 December 2020 1,450 – 1,450
Philip Mallinckrodt1 At 31 December 2019 419 456 875
Vested (419) 419 –
Exercised – (456) (456)
At 31 December 2020 – 419 419
1. Philip Mallinckrodt was an executive Director of Schroders until he moved to a non-executive role on 1 March 2017. During his period in an executive role he 
received part of his annual bonus awards in fund awards, in line with the remuneration policy for executive Directors at that time. 
100 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Directors’ rights under share awards (audited)
G
o
Directors had the following rights to shares under the Group’s incentive plans, in the form of nil-cost options, based on the number   v
e
of shares in each case. rn
a
n
c
e
Vested but 
Unvested LTIP Other unvested unexercised  
awards1 share awards2 share awards Total
Peter Harrison At 31 December 2019 76,318 163,664 25,429 265,411
(Ordinary shares) Granted 25,412 70,584 – 95,996
LTIP award granted but not accepted (25,412) – – (25,412)
Dividend-equivalent accrual – 7,847 2,159 10,006
Vested (7,621) (94,051) 101,672 –
Lapsed where LTIP conditions were not met (7,622) – – (7,622)
Exercised – – (83,858) (83,858)
At 31 December 2020 61,075 148,044 45,402 254,521
Richard Keers At 31 December 2019 52,149 69,645 8,247 130,041
(Ordinary shares) Granted 16,941 28,801 – 45,742
LTIP award granted but not accepted (16,941) – – (16,941)
Dividend-equivalent accrual – 3,605 623 4,228
Vested (5,716) (40,536) 46,252 –
Lapsed where LTIP conditions were not met (5,716) – – (5,716)
Exercised – – (27,737) (27,737)
At 31 December 2020 40,717 61,515 27,385 129,617
Philip Mallinckrodt3 At 31 December 2019 4,252 21,272 26,827 51,110
(Non-voting ordinary 
Dividend-equivalent accrual – – 1,188 1,188
shares)
Vested (2,126) (21,272) 23,398 –
Lapsed where LTIP conditions were not met (2,126) – – (2,126)
Exercised – – (26,827) (26,827)
At 31 December 2020 – – 24,586 24,586
1. These awards will only vest to the extent that the relevant performance conditions are met. Includes LTIP awards granted on 6 March 2017, which were 
unvested as at 31 December 2020. These awards are expected to partially vest on 4 March 2021 (see pages 96-97) and any balance will lapse.
2. No performance conditions apply for these awards. As well as awards granted under the DAP, this includes awards granted under the Equity Compensation 
Plan, which was used for deferred bonus awards granted to the executive Directors until 2018, and the Equity Incentive Plan (EIP), used very selectively in the 
past to reward high potential employees and sustained high performance. Although executive Directors were not eligible to receive EIP awards, Peter 
Harrison received an EIP award in December 2013, prior to his appointment as an executive Director in May 2014.
3. Philip Mallinckrodt was an executive Director of Schroders until he moved to a non-executive role on 1 March 2017. During his period in an executive role he 
received part of his annual bonus awards in share awards and received LTIP awards, in line with the remuneration policy for executive Directors at that time.
During 2020, the aggregate gain on nil-cost options for the Directors, which were settled in shares, was as follows:
–  Peter Harrison received £2,306,000 from exercising nil-cost options over 83,858 ordinary shares, in part granted as an element of his annual bonus 
award for performance in 2016, in part being the vested element of the LTIP award granted to him in 2016 and in part granted as an Equity 
Incentive Plan award granted to him in December 2013, prior to his appointment as an executive Director in May 2014.
–  Richard Keers received £793,000 from exercising nil-cost options over 27,737 ordinary shares, in part granted as an element of his annual bonus 
award for performance in 2016 and in part being the vested element of the LTIP award granted to him in 2016.
–  Philip Mallinckrodt received £508,000 from exercising awards over 26,827 non-voting ordinary shares, granted as part of his annual bonus award 
for performance in 2015. 
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 101
Remuneration report continued 
Directors’ share interests (audited)
The Directors and their connected persons had the following interests in shares in the Company.
Number of shares at 31 December 2020
Non-voting
Ordinary shares ordinary shares
Executive Directors
Peter Harrison 4,868 –
Richard Keers 830 –
Non-executive Directors
Michael Dobson 79,965 196,165
Sir Damon Buffini – 5,000
Rhian Davies – 1,000
Claire Fitzalan Howard1 80,942,658 6,263,708
Rakhi Goss-Custard 669 –
Ian King – 2,641
Leonie Schroder1 90,422,110 7,671,700
Deborah Waterhouse – –
Matthew Westerman 2,000 –
Former Directors
Philip Mallinckrodt2 80,985,757 6,363,370
1. The interests of Claire Fitzalan Howard and Leonie Schroder include their personal holdings and the beneficial interests held by them and their connected 
persons in their capacity as members of a class of potential beneficiaries under certain settlements made by members of the Schroder family.
2. The interests of Philip Mallinckrodt refer to the position as at 30 April 2020, the date he stepped down as a Director of the Company. They include his personal 
holdings and beneficial interests that were held by him and his connected persons in their capacity as members of a class of potential beneficiaries under 
certain settlements made by members of the Schroder family.
Between 31 December 2020 and 2 March 2021, the only movements in the Directors’ share interests were the acquisition under the Share Incentive 
Plan of 13 ordinary shares by Peter Harrison and 13 ordinary shares by Richard Keers.
Conduct, compliance and risk management in remuneration
Schroders’ core values are excellence, innovation, teamwork, passion and integrity. We expand on these in our guiding principles to more clearly 
articulate the behaviours that we expect from our employees. Pages 34-37 provide more information on key elements of our people strategy.
Performance management and remuneration are important tools to reinforce expected standards of behaviour. During the annual performance 
appraisal, line managers assess each employee’s behaviours, to identify those whose behaviour exemplifies our values as well as any employees 
whose behaviour falls short of the standards that we expect. To drive positive change and reinforce those behavioural expectations, we also operate a 
global employee recognition scheme, which provides an opportunity to recognise those who champion our values.
The Group’s control functions independently review potential conduct or cultural issues to identify any instances where performance or behaviours 
have fallen short of our expectations. Any issues identified in this way are fed into the performance appraisal and compensation review processes. 
This provides a further opportunity to reflect attitudes to risk and compliance and behaviours in line with our values in the determination or allocation 
of the bonus pool and in individual employee performance ratings and remuneration outcomes.
We identify employees whose professional activities can have a particular risk impact on the Group, or on certain regulated subsidiaries. Our approach 
to identifying these ‘material risk takers’ takes account of the different regulatory requirements and guidance that apply across the Group. Our 
material risk takers are subject to enhanced scrutiny and oversight, including enhanced control function oversight of their activities and direct 
oversight of their remuneration by the Committee. Some material risk takers, specifically those identified under the UCITS Directive or AIFMD, are 
subject to higher levels of bonus deferral and a higher proportion of remuneration in fund awards, creating greater alignment with shareholders and 
clients. Information on remuneration changes for certain material risk takers identified under the UK implementation of CRD V is set out on page 87; 
this does not include the executive Directors.
To ensure the Remuneration Committee is adequately informed of risks facing the Group and the management of those risks, the Chairman of the 
Audit and Risk Committee serves on the Remuneration Committee. The Remuneration Committee also receives reports from the Heads of 
Compliance, Legal, Risk and Internal Audit as part of its consideration of remuneration proposals.
The Committee reviewed the Group’s regulatory disclosures in the context of the applicable FCA and PRA requirements. The remuneration disclosures 
required under the Capital Requirements Directive are incorporated into the Group’s Pillar 3 disclosures and are available at schroders.com/ir. Other 
regulatory remuneration disclosures can be found at schroders.com/remuneration-disclosures.
102 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Directors’ report 
The information contained in the sections of this Annual Report and  buy back up to 5,000,000 non-voting ordinary shares and gave authority  G
Accounts identified below forms part of this Directors’ report: for the disapplication of pre-emption rights in relation to the issue of up  ov
e
–  Strategic report to 5,000,000 non-voting ordinary shares. Renewal of these authorities  rn
a
–  Board of Directors to a maximum of 5,000,000 non-voting ordinary shares will be sought  n
c
–  Corporate governance report, including the Nominations Committee  at the 2021 AGM.  e
report and the Audit and Risk Committee report
–  The Statement of Directors’ responsibilities. Under the terms of the Schroders Employee Benefit Trust and the 
Schroder US Holdings Inc. Grantor Trust, ordinary and non-voting 
Share capital ordinary shares are held on trust on behalf of employee share plan 
Schroders has developed under stable ownership for more than 200  participants. The trustees of these trusts may exercise the voting rights 
years and has been a public company whose ordinary shares have been  in any way they think fit. In doing so, they may consider the financial 
listed on the London Stock Exchange since 1959. The Company’s share  and non-financial interests of the beneficiaries and their dependants. As 
capital is comprised of ordinary shares of £1 each and non-voting  at 2 March 2021, being the latest practicable date before the publication 
ordinary shares of £1 each. The ordinary shares have a premium listing  of this Annual Report and Accounts, the Schroders Employee Benefit 
on the London Stock Exchange and the non-voting ordinary shares  Trust and the Schroder US Holdings Inc. Grantor Trust together held 
have a standard listing on the London Stock Exchange. 8,596,186 ordinary shares and 38,843 non-voting ordinary shares.
226,022,400 ordinary shares (80% of the total issued share capital) were  Under the terms of the Share Incentive Plan, as at 2 March 2021, 
in issue throughout the year. The Company has no authority to issue or  860,068 ordinary shares were held in trust on behalf of plan 
buy back any ordinary shares. Each ordinary share carries the right to  participants. At the participants’ direction, the trustees can exercise the 
attend and vote at general meetings of the Company. 56,505,600  voting rights over ordinary shares in respect of participant share 
non-voting ordinary shares (20% of the total issued share capital) were  entitlements.
in issue throughout the year. No shares were held in treasury.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Company’s shares save 
The non-voting ordinary shares were created in 1986 to facilitate the  for:
operation of an employee share plan without diluting the voting rights  –  Restrictions imposed by laws and regulations;
of ordinary shareholders. The non-voting ordinary shares carry the  –  Restrictions on the transfer of shares imposed under the Company’s 
same rights as ordinary shares except that they do not provide the right  Articles of Association or under Part 22 of the UK Companies Act 
to attend and vote at general meetings of the Company and that, on a  2006, in either case after a failure to supply information required to 
capitalisation issue, they carry the right to receive non-voting ordinary  be disclosed following service of a request under section 793 of the 
shares rather than ordinary shares. UK Companies Act 2006; and
–  Restrictions on the transfer of shares held under certain employee 
When the non-voting ordinary shares were created, the ratio of  share plans while they remain subject to the plan.
ordinary shares to non-voting ordinary shares was 4:1. The Company 
has at times issued non-voting ordinary shares, principally in connection  The Company is not aware of any agreement between shareholders 
with the Group’s employee share plans or as consideration for an  that may restrict the transfer of securities or voting rights. 
acquisition. The Company has not intended and does not intend to 
increase the issued non-voting ordinary share capital over the medium  Articles of Association
term and therefore has, at times, bought back non-voting ordinary  A special resolution to adopt new Articles of Association will be 
shares to maintain the 4:1 ratio.  considered by the shareholders at the 2021 AGM. 
At the 2020 AGM, shareholders renewed the Directors’ authority to  2021 Annual General Meeting 
issue 5,000,000 non-voting ordinary shares in order to provide the  The 2021 AGM will be held on Thursday 29 April 2021 at 11.30 a.m. All 
Directors with the flexibility to issue non-voting ordinary shares or to  resolutions are voted on separately and the final voting results are 
grant rights to subscribe for, or convert securities into, non-voting  published as soon as practicable after the meeting. Together with the 
ordinary shares. Shareholders also gave approval for the Company to  rest of the Board, the Chairmen of the Nominations, Audit and Risk, and 
Remuneration Committees will be present to answer questions. 
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 103
Directors’ report continued
Substantial shareholdings
The table below shows the holdings of major shareholders in the voting rights of the Company, as at 31 December 2020, as notified and disclosed to 
the Company in accordance with the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules. On 15 January 2021, Harris Associates L.P., notified the Company 
that their holding had decreased to 11,293,745 ordinary shares, which is 4.99% of voting rights held. 
Member Class of shares No. of voting rights held % of voting rights held
Vincitas Limited1 Ordinary 60,724,609 26.87
Veritas Limited1 Ordinary 36,795,041 16.28
Flavida Limited2 Ordinary 60,951,886 26.97
Fervida Limited2 Ordinary 39,724,396 17.58
Lindsell Train Limited3 Ordinary 22,507,143 9.958
Harris Associates L.P.3 Ordinary 11,443,978 5.06
1. Vincitas Limited and Veritas Limited are trustee companies which act as trustees of certain settlements made by members of the Schroder family. Vincitas 
Limited and Veritas Limited are party to the Relationship Agreement.
2. Flavida Limited and Fervida Limited are protector companies which act as protectors of certain settlements made by members of the Schroder Family. Flavida 
Limited and Fervida Limited are parties to the Relationship Agreement. Their interests in shares are principally in respect of shares in which Vincitas Limited 
and Veritas Limited are also interested. 
3. Lindsell Train Limited and Harris Associates L.P. are not party to the Relationship Agreement. 
Relationship Agreement Dividends
Following changes made to the UK Listing Rules in May 2014,  The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 79 pence per share, 
companies with a shareholder or shareholders who could, when acting  which if approved by shareholders at the AGM, will be paid on 6 May 
in concert, exercise 30% or more of the voting rights of a company at a  2021 to shareholders on the register of members at close of business 
general meeting, are required to enter into a binding agreement with  on 26 March 2021. Details of the Company’s dividend policy are set out 
that shareholder or shareholders. This is intended to ensure that the  on page 29. Dividends payable in respect of the year, subject to this 
parties to the agreement comply with certain independence provisions  approval, along with prior year payments, are set out below.
as set out in the Listing Rules. Accordingly, on 14 November 2014, the 
Company entered into such an agreement (the Relationship  Ordinary shares and  2020 2019
Agreement) with a number of shareholders who own or control the  non-voting ordinary shares pence £m pence £m
ordinary shares (and associated voting rights) and additional  Interim 35.0 95.7 35.0 95.8
shareholders have adhered to the Relationship Agreement as required 
Final* 79.0 216.3 79.0 216.7
since that date. 
Total 114.0 312.0 114.0 312.5
The Schroder family interests are in shares owned directly or indirectly 
* Subject to approval by shareholders at the 2021 AGM.
by trustee companies which act as trustees of various trusts settled by 
family individuals, in shares owned by family individuals, and in shares  The Schroders Employee Benefit Trust and the Schroder US Holdings 
owned by a family charity. The trustee holdings include the interests  Inc. Grantor Trust have waived their rights to dividends paid on both 
(43.15%) held by Vincitas Limited and Veritas Limited, as disclosed in the  the ordinary and non-voting ordinary shares in respect of 2020 and 
above table, and further interests held by other trustee companies  future periods. See notes 7 and 22 to the financial statements.
which are not required to be disclosed under the Disclosure Guidance 
and Transparency Rules. Corporate responsibility
Details of the Company’s employment practices, including diversity and 
If aggregated, the total interests covered by the Relationship  employee involvement, can be found in the Strategic report from 
Agreement including shares held by the trustee companies, individuals  page 30. 
and the family charity amount to 108,323,711 of the Company’s 
ordinary shares (47.93%). We are committed to minimising the environmental impact of our 
operations and to delivering continuous improvement in our 
In accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.4(14), the Board confirms that for  environmental performance. See page 46 for more details on our total 
the year ended 31 December 2020: COe emissions data.
2
–  the Company has complied with the independence provisions 
included in the Relationship Agreement; and Indemnities and insurance
–  so far as the Company is aware, the independence provisions  At the 2007 AGM, shareholders authorised the Company to provide 
included in the Relationship Agreement have been complied with by  indemnities to, and to fund defence costs for, Directors in certain 
the other parties to the Relationship Agreement and their associates. circumstances. All Directors, at the time shareholder approval was 
received, were granted specific deeds of indemnity and any Director 
appointed subsequently has been granted such an indemnity. This 
means that, on their appointment, new Directors are granted an 
indemnity as defined in the Companies Act 2006 in respect of any 
third-party liabilities that they may incur as a result of their service on 
the Board. All Directors’ indemnities were in place during the year and 
remain in force. 
104 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Directors’ and Officers’ Liability Insurance is maintained by the  employee share schemes may cause awards granted to employees  G
Company for all Directors. under such schemes to vest on a change of control. ov
e
rn
Under the Trust Deed & Rules of the Schroders Retirement Benefit  Political donations an
c
e
Scheme (the Scheme), the Company provides a qualifying pension  No political donations or contributions were made or expenditure 
scheme indemnity in line with the Companies Act 2006. The indemnity  incurred by the Company or its subsidiaries during the year (2019: nil) 
covers each director of the trustee company that acts as trustee of the  and there is no intention to make or incur any in the current year.
Scheme. The provisions have been in force during the financial year.
UK Listing Authority Listing Rules (LR) – compliance 
As part of the integration of Cazenove Capital, the Cazenove Capital  with LR 9.8.4C
Management Limited Pension Scheme was merged with the Schroders  The majority of the disclosures required under LR 9.8.4 are not 
Retirement Benefits Scheme, with effect from 31 December 2014.  applicable to Schroders. The table below sets out the location of the 
Pursuant to that merger, a qualifying pension scheme indemnity (as  disclosures for those requirements that are applicable:
defined in section 235 of the Companies Act 2006) provided by 
Schroders plc for the benefit of the directors of Cazenove Capital 
Applicable sub-paragraph within LR 9.8.4  Disclosure provided
Management Pension Trustee Limited, a subsidiary of the Company at 
(5) Details of any arrangements under which a 
that time, was put in place at that time and remains in force. This 
director of the company has waived or agreed to 
indemnity covers, to the extent permitted by law, certain losses or 
waive any emoluments from the company or any 
liabilities incurred by the directors of Cazenove Capital Management  subsidiary undertaking; See page 75
Pension Trustee Limited in connection with that company’s activities as 
(6) Where a director has agreed to waive future 
trustee of the Cazenove Capital Management Limited Pension Scheme.
emoluments, details of such waiver together 
with those relating to emoluments which were 
Directors’ conflicts of interest 
waived during the period under review; See page 75
The Company has procedures in place to identify, authorise and 
(12) Details of any arrangements under which  
manage conflicts of interest, including of Directors of the Company. 
a shareholder has waived or agreed to waive   See pages 104 
They have operated effectively during the year. In circumstances where 
any dividends. 121 and 146
a potential conflict arises, the Board (excluding the Director concerned) 
(13) Where a shareholder has agreed to waive 
will consider the situation and either authorise the arrangement in 
future dividends, details of such waiver together 
accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the Company’s Articles of 
with those relating to dividends which are  See pages 104, 
Association, or take other appropriate action. 
payable during the period under review. 121 and 146
All potential conflicts authorised by the Board are recorded in a conflicts  (14) A statement made by the Board that the 
register, which is maintained by the Company Secretary and reviewed  Company has entered into an agreement under 
LR 9.2.2A, that the Company has, and, as far as it 
by the Board on an annual basis. Directors have a continuing duty to 
is aware, the other parties to the agreement have, 
update the Board with any changes to their conflicts of interest.
complied with the provisions in the agreement. See page 104
Change of control
Going concern
The Company does not consider that it has any significant agreements 
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect 
to which the Company is a party that take effect, alter or terminate 
its future development, performance and position, are set out in the 
upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid that 
Strategic report. In addition, the financial statements include 
are required to be disclosed pursuant to paragraph 13(2) (j) of Schedule 
information on the Group’s approach to managing its capital and 
7 of the Large and Medium Sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and 
financial risk; details of its financial instruments and hedging activities; 
Reports) Regulations 2008 (as amended) other than as disclosed below:
and its exposures to credit and liquidity risk.
Under the Group’s Revolving Credit Facility Agreement, if a change of 
The Group has considerable financial resources, a broad range of 
control of the Company occurs, the lenders are not obliged to provide 
products and a geographically diversified business. As a consequence, 
further funding under the facility. The Company and lenders have up to 
the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its 
30 days to agree the continued use of the facility. If there is no 
business risks in the context of the current economic outlook.
agreement, repayment of the facility and accrued interest may be 
requested by the lenders with not less than 10 days’ notice.
Accordingly, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the 
Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in 
Under the Amended and Restated Framework Agreement (Framework 
operational existence for 12 months from the date the Annual Report 
Agreement) with Lloyds Banking Group plc (LBG) signed on 3 October 
and Accounts is signed. They therefore continue to adopt the going 
2019 in relation to the strategic partnership announced on 23 October 
concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
2018, on a change of control of the Company to: (1) either a material 
competitor of an LBG business or (2) an entity or person on, or 
In addition, the Directors have assessed the Company’s viability over a 
controlled by an entity or person on, a recognised sanctions list or 
period of five years. The results of this assessment are set out on 
located in a specified jurisdiction, LBG may terminate the Framework 
page 56.
Agreement. Such termination provisions provide for LBG and the 
Company to return to the status quo prior to establishing the strategic 
By order of the Board.
partnership in relation to shareholdings in subsidiary entities, with any 
implementing transactions conducted at specified valuations. 
Graham Staples
Company Secretary
Directors’ and employees’ employment contracts do not normally 
provide for compensation for loss of office or employment as a result of 
3 March 2021 
a change of control. However, the provisions of the Company’s 
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 105
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the  Directors’ statement
Consolidated financial statements in accordance with applicable law  Each of the Directors, whose name and functions are listed in the Board 
and regulations. of Directors section of this Annual Report and Accounts, confirms that, 
to the best of each person’s knowledge and belief:
The Companies Act 2006, being the applicable law in the UK, requires 
the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.  The consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance with 
The Directors have prepared the Company financial statements in  international accounting standards in conformity with the requirements 
accordance with international accounting standards in conformity with  of the Companies Act 2006 and international financial reporting 
the requirements of Companies Act 2006 and the Group financial  standards adopted pursuant to Regulation (EC) No. 1606/2002 as it 
statements in conformity with the requirements of the Companies Act  applies to the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
2006 and international financial reporting standards adopted pursuant  liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company and the Group.
to Regulation (EC) No. 1606/2002 as it applies to the European Union. 
Under the Companies Act 2006, the Directors must not approve the  The Directors’ report contained in this Annual Report and Accounts 
financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and  which comprises the sections described on page 103, includes a fair 
fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the  review of the development and performance of the business and the 
profit or loss of the Group for that period. position of the Company and the Group and a description of the 
principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
In preparing those financial statements the Directors are required to:
So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of 
–  Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently. which the Company’s auditors are unaware.
–  Make estimates and judgements that are reasonable and prudent. 
The Director has taken all the steps that ought to have been taken as a 
–  State that the financial statements comply with international 
Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit 
accounting standards in conformity with the requirements of the 
information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of 
Companies Act 2006 and international financial reporting standards 
that information.
adopted pursuant to Regulation (EC) No. 1606/2002 as it applies to 
the European Union, subject to any material departure disclosed and 
In addition, each of the Directors considers that this Annual Report and 
explained in the financial statements.
Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and 
–  Prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis, unless it is 
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the 
inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business, in 
Company’s performance, business model and strategy.
which case there should be supporting assumptions or qualifications 
as necessary.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
audited financial information on the website at schroders.com. 
The Directors are also required by the Disclosure and Transparency 
Rules of the FCA to include a management report containing a fair 
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of 
review of the business and a description of the principal risks and 
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
uncertainties facing the Company and the Group.
Forward-looking statements
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper books of accounting 
This Annual Report and Accounts and the Schroders website may 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
contain forward-looking statements with respect to the financial 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
condition, performance and position, strategy, results of operations  
financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to 
and businesses of the Company and the Group. Such statements and 
ensure that the financial statements and the Remuneration report 
forecasts involve risk and uncertainty because they are based on 
comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for 
current expectations and assumptions but relate to events and depend 
safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for 
upon circumstances in the future and you should not place reliance on 
taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and 
them. Without limitation, any statements preceded or followed by or 
other irregularities.
that include the words ‘targets’, ‘plans’, ‘believes’, ‘expects’, ‘confident’, 
‘aims’, ‘will have’, ‘will be’, ‘will ensure’, ‘estimates’ or ‘anticipates’ or the 
negative of these terms or other similar terms are intended to identify 
such forward-looking statements. There are a number of factors that 
could cause actual results or developments to differ materially from 
those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements and 
forecasts. Forward-looking statements and forecasts are based on the 
Directors’ current view and information known to them at the date of 
this Annual Report and Accounts. The Directors do not make any 
undertaking to update or revise any forward-looking statements, 
whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 
Nothing in this Annual Report and Accounts should be construed as a 
forecast, estimate or projection of future financial performance.
106 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Financial statements
Consolidated financial statements  
Consolidated income statement  108
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income  108
Consolidated statement of financial position  109
Consolidated statement of changes in equity  110
Consolidated cash flow statement  111
Notes to the accounts
1.  Segmental reporting  112
F
2.  Net operating revenue  114 in
a
3.  Net gain on financial instruments and other income  117 n
c
4.  Operating expenses  119 ial s
5.  Tax expense  120 ta
6.  Earnings per share  121 tem
7.  Dividends  121 en
8.  Trade and other receivables  122 ts
9.  Financial assets  122
10.  Associates and joint ventures  125
11.  Property, plant and equipment   127
12.  Leases            128
13.  Goodwill and intangible assets  128
14.  Deferred tax  130
15.  Unit-linked liabilities and assets backing unit-linked liabilities  131
16.  Trade and other payables  132
17.  Financial liabilities  133
18.  Provisions and contingent liabilities  134
19.  Derivative contracts  136
20.  Financial instrument risk management  138
21.  Share capital and share premium  145
22.  Own shares  146
23.  Reconciliation of net cash from operating activities  147
24.  Commitments  148
25.  Retirement benefit obligations  149
26.  Share-based payments  153
27.  Related party transactions  156
28.  Interests in structured entities  157
29.  Business combinations  159
Presentation of the financial statements  161
Schroders plc financial statements
Schroders plc – Statement of financial position  163
Schroders plc – Statement of changes in equity  164
Schroders plc – Cash flow statement  165
Schroders plc – Notes to the accounts
30.  Significant accounting policies  165
31.  Expenses and other disclosures  166
32.  Trade and other receivables  166
33.  Trade and other payables  166
34.  Deferred tax  167
35.  Financial instrument risk management  167
36.  Own shares  167
37.  Related party transactions  168
38.   Subsidiaries and other related undertakings  169
Independent auditor’s report  180
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 107
Financial statements continued
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 December 2020
2020 2019
Before  Before 
exceptional  Exceptional exceptional  Exceptional
items items2 Total items items2 Total
Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 2,512.7 – 2,512.7 2,537.0 – 2,537.0
Cost of sales (453.1) – (453.1) (484.6) – (484.6)
Net operating revenue 2 2,059.6 – 2,059.6 2,052.4 – 2,052.4
Net gain on financial instruments and other income 3 55.5 0.4 55.9 41.9 1.1 43.0
Share of profit of associates and joint ventures 10 64.1 (21.0) 43.1 30.5 (3.3) 27.2
Net income 2,179.2 (20.6) 2,158.6 2,124.8 (2.2) 2,122.6
Operating expenses 4 (1,476.9) (71.2) (1,548.1) (1,423.6) (74.4) (1,498.0)
Profit before tax 702.3 (91.8) 610.5 701.2 (76.6) 624.6
Tax 5(a) (133.5) 9.0 (124.5) (140.5) 11.6 (128.9)
Profit after tax1 568.8 (82.8) 486.0 560.7 (65.0) 495.7
Earnings per share
Basic 6 200.8p (28.4)p 172.4p 201.6p (22.7)p 178.9p
Diluted 6 197.2p (27.9)p 169.3p 198.0p (22.2)p 175.8p
Total dividend per share 7 114.0p 114.0p
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 December 2020
2020 2019
Notes £m £m
Profit after tax1 486.0 495.7
Items that may or have been reclassified to the income statement:
Net exchange differences on translation of foreign operations after hedging 37.8 (56.0)
Net gain on financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 3 1.4 6.3
Net gain on financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income held by associates 10  0.1 –
Tax on items taken directly to other comprehensive income 5(b) (0.3) (0.4)
39.0 (50.1)
Items that will not be reclassified to the income statement:
Net actuarial gain/(loss) on defined benefit pension schemes 25 30.4 (23.2)
Tax on items taken directly to other comprehensive income 5(b) (5.0) 4.0
25.4 (19.2)
Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax1 64.4 (69.3)
Total comprehensive income for the year1 550.4 426.4
1. Non-controlling interest is presented in the Consolidated statement of changes in equity.
2. See note 1(b) for a definition and further details of exceptional items.
108 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Consolidated statement of financial position
at 31 December 2020
2020 2019
Notes £m £m
Assets
Cash and cash equivalents 3,469.6 2,660.3
Trade and other receivables 8 840.3 806.7
Financial assets 9 2,871.8 3,016.4
Associates and joint ventures 10 405.2 398.0
Property, plant and equipment 11, 12 590.9 652.3
F
Goodwill and intangible assets 13 1,208.0 1,133.4 in
a
n
Deferred tax 14 32.9 36.9 c
ia
Retirement benefit scheme surplus 25 168.2 136.3 l sta
9,586.9 8,840.3 tem
e
Assets backing unit-linked liabilities n
ts
Cash and cash equivalents 746.3 972.6
Financial assets 11,339.9 11,453.3
15 12,086.2 12,425.9
Total assets 21,673.1 21,266.2
Liabilities
Trade and other payables 16 927.7 921.7
Financial liabilities 17 4,085.2 3,531.1
Lease liabilities 12 397.2 425.3
Current tax 21.5 54.1
Provisions 18 26.4 32.2
Deferred tax 14 31.5 16.2
Retirement benefit scheme deficits 11.5 12.2
5,501.0 4,992.8
Unit-linked liabilities 15 12,086.2 12,425.9
Total liabilities 17,587.2 17,418.7
Net assets 4,085.9 3,847.5
Total equity1 4,085.9 3,847.5
1. Non-controlling interest is presented in the Consolidated statement of changes in equity.
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 3 March 2021 and signed on its behalf by:
Richard Keers
Director
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 109
Financial statements continued
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2020
Attributable to owners of the parent
Net Associates 
exchange  and joint  Profit   Non- 
Share  Share  Own differences  ventures  and loss   controlling  Total 
capital premium shares   reserve reserve reserve Total  interest  equity 
Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2020 282.5 124.2 (169.1) 128.4 106.1 3,308.8 3,780.9 66.6 3,847.5
Profit for the year – – – – 43.1 433.2 476.3 9.7 486.0
Other comprehensive income1 – – – 37.2 0.1 26.5 63.8 0.6 64.4
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 37.2 43.2 459.7 540.1 10.3 550.4
Own shares purchased 22 – – (58.3) – – – (58.3) – (58.3)
Share-based payments 26 – – – – – 56.1 56.1 – 56.1
Tax in respect of share schemes 5(c) – – – – – 3.5 3.5 – 3.5
Other movements – – – – 0.2 (8.0) (7.8) 6.3 (1.5)
Dividends 7 – – – – – (311.7) (311.7) (0.1) (311.8)
Transactions with shareholders – – (58.3) – 0.2 (260.1) (318.2) 6.2 (312.0)
Transfers – – 67.6 – (15.9) (51.7) – – –
At 31 December 2020 282.5 124.2 (159.8) 165.6 133.6 3,456.7 4,002.8 83.1 4,085.9
Attributable to owners of the parent
Net  Associates 
exchange  and joint  Profit   Non- 
Share  Share  Own  differences  ventures  and loss   controlling  Total 
capital premium shares   reserve reserve reserve Total  interest  equity 
Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2019 282.5 124.2 (163.9) 184.4 83.1 3,108.2 3,618.5 2.7 3,621.2
Restatement on adoption of IFRS 16 – – – – – (6.9) (6.9) – (6.9)
At 1 January 2019 (restated) 282.5 124.2 (163.9) 184.4 83.1 3,101.3 3,611.6 2.7 3,614.3
Profit for the year – – – – 27.2 466.9 494.1 1.6 495.7
Other comprehensive income1 – – – (56.0) – (13.3) (69.3) – (69.3)
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – (56.0) 27.2 453.6 424.8 1.6 426.4
Own shares purchased 22 – – (81.0) – – – (81.0) – (81.0)
Share-based payments 26 – – – – – 61.6 61.6 – 61.6
Tax in respect of share schemes 5(c) – – – – – 5.2 5.2 – 5.2
Movements in ownership interests in subsidiaries2 – – – – – 127.3 127.3 48.4 175.7
Other movements – – – – (0.7) (55.6) (56.3) 16.3 (40.0)
Dividends 7 – – – – – (312.3) (312.3) (2.4) (314.7)
Transactions with shareholders – – (81.0) – (0.7) (173.8) (255.5) 62.3 (193.2)
Transfers – – 75.8 – (3.5) (72.3) – – –
At 31 December 2019 282.5 124.2 (169.1) 128.4 106.1 3,308.8 3,780.9 66.6 3,847.5
1.  Other comprehensive income reported in the net exchange differences reserve comprises the net foreign exchange gain/(loss) on the translation of foreign 
operations net of hedging. Other comprehensive income reported in the associates and joint ventures reserve represents post-tax fair value movements on 
financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income. Other comprehensive income reported in the profit and loss reserve comprises the post-tax 
actuarial gain/(loss) on the Group’s retirement benefit scheme surplus and post-tax fair value movements on financial assets at fair value through other 
comprehensive income.
2. Movements in ownership interests in subsidiaries in 2019, principally relates to a gain of £153.6 million on the sale of a 19.9% interest in the Group’s UK Wealth 
Management business.
 
110 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Consolidated cash flow statement
for the year ended 31 December 2020
2020 2019
Notes £m £m
Net cash from operating activities 23 832.5 1,002.0
Cash flows from investing activities
Net acquisition of businesses, associates and joint ventures (18.3) (152.4)
Net acquisition of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (92.8) (142.9)
Acquisition of financial assets (1,728.2) (1,730.2)
F
Disposal of financial assets 1,974.2 1,841.2 in
a
n
Non-banking interest received 14.9 22.5 c
ia
Distributions received from associates and joint ventures 1.5 3.5 l sta
Net cash from/(used in) investing activities 151.3 (158.3) tem
e
n
ts
Cash flows from financing activities
Purchase of subsidiary shares (15.8) (44.3)
Lease payments 12 (44.4) (26.5)
Acquisition of own shares 22 (58.3) (81.0)
Dividends paid 7 (311.8) (314.7)
Other flows (0.8) (0.5)
Net cash used in financing activities (431.1) (467.0)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 552.7 376.7
Opening cash and cash equivalents 3,632.9 3,281.6
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 552.7 376.7
Effect of exchange rate changes 30.3 (25.4)
Closing cash and cash equivalents 4,215.9 3,632.9
Closing cash and cash equivalents consists of:
Cash and cash equivalents available for use by the Group 3,421.9 2,578.4
Cash held in consolidated pooled investment vehicles 47.7 81.9
Cash and cash equivalents presented within assets 3,469.6 2,660.3
Cash and cash equivalents presented within assets backing unit-linked liabilities 746.3 972.6
Closing cash and cash equivalents 4,215.9 3,632.9
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 111
Financial statements continued
Notes to the accounts
1. Segmental reporting
(a) Operating segments
The Group has three business segments: Asset Management, Wealth Management and the Group segment. The Asset Management 
segment principally comprises investment management including advisory services in respect of equity, fixed income, multi-asset solutions 
and private assets and alternatives products. The Wealth Management segment principally comprises investment management, wealth 
planning and financial advice, platform services and banking services. The Group segment principally comprises the Group’s investment 
capital and treasury management activities, corporate development and strategy activities and the management costs associated with 
governance and corporate management.
Segmental information is presented on the same basis as that provided for internal reporting purposes to the Group’s chief operating 
decision maker, the Group Chief Executive. The Wealth Management segment includes the Group’s proportional share of the income and 
expenses of its 49.9% interest in SPW on an individual account line basis. This reflects the basis on which the Group monitors the 
performance of the business. The adjustment column re-presents the results of SPW on a post-tax basis within share of profit of associates 
and joint ventures in accordance with the accounting standards.
Operating expenses includes an allocation of costs between the individual business segments on a basis that aligns the charge with the 
resources employed by the Group in respect of particular business functions. This allocation provides management with the relevant 
information as to the business performance to effectively manage and control expenditure.
Asset   Wealth  Segmental  Group 
Management Management Group total Adjustments total
Year ended 31 December 2020 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 2,182.6 393.3 – 2,575.9 (63.2) 2,512.7
Cost of sales (435.4) (26.4) – (461.8) 8.7 (453.1)
Net operating revenue 1,747.2 366.9 – 2,114.1 (54.5) 2,059.6
Net gain on financial instruments and other income (9.8) 14.7 58.1 63.0 (7.5) 55.5
Share of profit of associates and joint ventures 49.5 1.1 – 50.6 13.5 64.1
Net income 1,786.9 382.7 58.1 2,227.7 (48.5) 2,179.2
Operating expenses (1,213.6) (272.2) (39.6) (1,525.4) 48.5 (1,476.9)
Profit before tax and exceptional items 573.3 110.5 18.5 702.3 – 702.3
Asset  Wealth  Segmental Group 
Management Management Group total Adjustments Total
Year ended 31 December 2019 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 2,217.9 334.0 – 2,551.9 (14.9) 2,537.0
Cost of sales (454.8) (31.9) – (486.7) 2.1 (484.6)
Net operating revenue 1,763.1 302.1 – 2,065.2 (12.8) 2,052.4
Net gain on financial instruments and other income (5.4) 6.5 40.8 41.9 – 41.9
Share of profit of associates and joint ventures 23.5 1.0 4.1 28.6 1.9 30.5
Net income 1,781.2 309.6 44.9 2,135.7 (10.9) 2,124.8
Operating expenses (1,174.3) (222.1) (38.1) (1,434.5) 10.9 (1,423.6)
Profit before tax and exceptional items 606.9 87.5 6.8 701.2 – 701.2
Segment assets and liabilities are not required to be presented as such information is not presented on a regular basis to the Group’s chief 
operating decision maker.
112 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
1. Segmental reporting continued
(b) Exceptional items
Exceptional items are significant items of income and expenditure that have been separately presented by virtue of their nature to enable a 
better understanding of the Group’s financial performance. Exceptional items relate principally to items arising from acquisitions (including 
associates and joint ventures) undertaken by the Group, including amortisation of acquired intangible assets, certain one-off costs in 2020 
relating to the Group’s property estate, and in 2019, the cost reduction programme.
Asset   Wealth  Segmental  Group  Fin
Management Management Group total  Adjustments total a
n
Year ended 31 December 2020 £m £m £m £m £m £m c
ia
Profit before tax and exceptional items 573.3 110.5 18.5 702.3 – 702.3 l s
ta
te
m
Exceptional items presented within net income: e
n
Net gain on financial instruments and other income 0.4 – – 0.4 – 0.4 ts
Associates and joint ventures amortisation of acquired 
intangible assets and other costs – (21.0) – (21.0) – (21.0)
0.4 (21.0) – (20.6) – (20.6)
Exceptional items presented within operating expenses:
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (13.8) (22.5) – (36.3) – (36.3)
Other expenses (16.4) (2.2) (16.3) (34.9) – (34.9)
(30.2) (24.7) (16.3) (71.2) – (71.2)
Profit before tax and after exceptional items 543.5 64.8 2.2 610.5 – 610.5
Asset  Wealth  Segmental Group
Management Management Group total Adjustments total
Year ended 31 December 2019 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Profit before tax and exceptional items 606.9 87.5 6.8 701.2 – 701.2
Exceptional items presented within net income:
Net gain on financial instruments and other income 1.1 – – 1.1 – 1.1
Associates and joint ventures amortisation of acquired 
intangible assets and other costs – (3.3) – (3.3) – (3.3)
1.1 (3.3) – (2.2) – (2.2)
Exceptional items presented within operating expenses:
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (9.1) (20.9) – (30.0) – (30.0)
Cost reduction programme (22.3) (5.7) (1.0) (29.0) – (29.0)
Other expenses (11.1) (4.7) 0.4 (15.4) – (15.4)
(42.5) (31.3) (0.6) (74.4) – (74.4)
Profit before tax and after exceptional items 565.5 52.9 6.2 624.6 – 624.6
(c) Geographical information
The Group’s non-current assets1 are located in the following countries:
2020 2019
£m £m
United Kingdom 1,513.4 1,411.7
Switzerland 187.4 272.2
China 159.4 118.2
United States 111.7 122.6
France 86.6 85.0
Singapore 44.2 57.1
Other 107.6 117.0
Total 2,210.3 2,183.8
1. Comprises the following non-current assets: property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets, associates and joint ventures and prepayments.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 113
Financial statements continued
Notes to the accounts continued
1. Segmental reporting continued
(d) Non-cash items
Asset  Wealth  Segmental  Group 
Management Management Group total Adjustments total
Year ended 31 December 2020 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Operating expenses include the following non-cash items:
Share-based payments (48.9) (4.1) (3.1) (56.1) – (56.1)
Depreciation and amortisation (125.6) (30.4) (12.8) (168.8) – (168.8)
Asset  Wealth  Segmental
Management Management Group total Adjustments Total
Year ended 31 December 2019 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Operating expenses include the following non-cash items:
Share-based payments (53.4) (4.6) (3.6) (61.6) – (61.6)
Depreciation and amortisation (111.1) (27.0) (0.6) (138.7) – (138.7)
Where applicable, exceptional items are included in the non-cash items presented above.
2. Net operating revenue
Revenue
The Group’s primary source of revenue is fee income from investment management activities performed within both the Asset 
Management and Wealth Management segments. Fee income includes management fees, performance fees, carried interest and other 
fees. Revenue also includes interest income earned within the Wealth Management segment.
Management fees are generated through investment management agreements and are generally based on an agreed percentage of the 
valuation of AUM. Management fees are recognised as the service is provided and it is probable that the fee will be collected.
Performance fees and carried interest are earned from certain arrangements when contractually agreed performance levels are exceeded 
within specified performance measurement periods. They are only recognised where it is highly probable that a significant reversal will not 
occur in future periods. Performance fees are typically earned over one year and are recognised at the end of the performance period. 
Carried interest is earned over a longer time frame and is recognised when the performance obligations are expected to be met. This may 
result in the recognition of revenue before the contractual crystallisation date.
Other fees principally comprise revenues for other services, which are typically driven by levels of AUM, along with revenues that vary 
according to the volume of transactions. Other fees are recognised as the relevant service is provided and it is probable that the fee will  
be collected.
Within Wealth Management, earning a net interest margin is a core activity and interest is therefore recognised within revenue. Interest 
income is earned as a result of placing loans and deposits with other financial institutions, advancing loans and overdrafts to clients, and 
holding debt and other fixed income securities. Interest income is recognised as it is earned using the effective interest method, which 
allocates interest at a constant rate of return over the expected life of the financial instrument based on the estimated future cash flows.
Cost of sales
Fee expenses incurred by the Group that relate directly to revenue are presented as cost of sales. These expenses include commissions, 
external fund manager fees and distribution fees payable to financial institutions, investment platform providers and financial advisers that 
distribute the Group’s products. 
Fee expense is generally based on an agreed percentage of the valuation of AUM and is recognised in the income statement as the service 
is received. 
Cost of sales also includes the cost of financial obligations arising from carried interest. Amounts payable in respect of carried interest are 
determined based on the proportion of carried interest income that is payable to third parties. 
Wealth Management pays interest to clients on deposits taken. Within Wealth Management, earning a net interest margin is a core activity. 
Interest payable in respect of these activities is therefore recorded separately from finance costs arising elsewhere in the business and is 
reported as part of cost of sales. Interest is recognised using the effective interest method (see above).
114 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
2. Net operating revenue continued
a) Net operating revenue by segment is presented below:
Asset  Wealth  Segmental  Group 
Management  Management  Group  total Adjustments  total 
Year ended 31 December 2020 £m £m £m  £m £m £m
Management fees 2,058.0 332.4 – 2,390.4 (63.2) 2,327.2
Performance fees 85.8 1.1 – 86.9 – 86.9
Carried interest 21.3 – – 21.3 – 21.3
F
Other fees 17.5 42.6 – 60.1 – 60.1 in
a
n
Wealth Management interest income earned – 17.2 – 17.2 – 17.2 cia
l s
Revenue 2,182.6 393.3 – 2,575.9 (63.2) 2,512.7 ta
te
m
e
Fee expense (422.9) (23.3) – (446.2) 8.7 (437.5) nts
Change in financial obligations in respect of carried interest (12.5) – – (12.5)  – (12.5)
Wealth Management interest expense incurred – (3.1) – (3.1) – (3.1)
Cost of sales (435.4) (26.4) – (461.8) 8.7 (453.1)
Net operating revenue 1,747.2 366.9 – 2,114.1 (54.5) 2,059.6
Asset   Wealth  Segmental
Management  Management  Group  total Adjustments Total 
Year ended 31 December 2019 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Management fees 2,140.3 253.2 – 2,393.5 (13.3) 2,380.2
Performance fees 42.9 0.9 – 43.8 – 43.8
Carried interest 23.4 – – 23.4 – 23.4
Other fees 11.3 37.6 – 48.9 (1.6) 47.3
Wealth Management interest income earned – 42.3 – 42.3 – 42.3
Revenue 2,217.9 334.0 – 2,551.9 (14.9) 2,537.0
Fee expense (460.7) (13.6) – (474.3) 2.1 (472.2)
Change in financial obligations in respect of carried interest 5.9 – – 5.9 – 5.9
Wealth Management interest expense incurred – (18.3) – (18.3) – (18.3)
Cost of sales (454.8) (31.9) – (486.7) 2.1 (484.6)
Net operating revenue 1,763.1 302.1 – 2,065.2 (12.8) 2,052.4
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 115
Financial statements continued
Notes to the accounts continued
2. Net operating revenue continued
b) Net operating revenue is presented below by region based on the location of clients:
Continental 
Europe &   Segmental  Group
UK  Middle East  Asia Pacific  Americas  total  Adjustments  total 
Year ended 31 December 2020 £m £m  £m £m £m £m £m
Management fees 784.4 724.4 589.6 292.0 2,390.4 (63.2) 2,327.2
Performance fees 7.8 31.9 26.5 20.7 86.9 – 86.9
Carried interest – 21.3 – – 21.3 – 21.3
Other fees 37.1 14.0 8.9 0.1 60.1 – 60.1
Wealth Management interest income earned 14.5 2.3 0.4 – 17.2 – 17.2
Revenue 843.8 793.9 625.4 312.8 2,575.9 (63.2) 2,512.7
Fee expense (59.8) (175.6) (171.4) (39.4) (446.2) 8.7 (437.5)
Change in financial obligations in respect of carried interest – (12.5) – – (12.5) – (12.5)
Wealth Management interest expense incurred (3.0) (0.1) – – (3.1) – (3.1)
Cost of sales (62.8) (188.2) (171.4) (39.4) (461.8) 8.7 (453.1)
Net operating revenue 781.0 605.7 454.0 273.4 2,114.1 (54.5) 2,059.6
Continental  
Europe &   Segmental Group
UK  Middle East  Asia Pacific  Americas  total  Adjustments  total 
Year ended 31 December 2019 £m £m  £m £m £m £m £m
Management fees 727.9 750.5 622.8 292.3 2,393.5 (13.3) 2,380.2
Performance fees 6.0 15.0 14.6 8.2 43.8 – 43.8
Carried interest – 23.4 – – 23.4 – 23.4
Other fees 32.1 10.1 6.6 0.1 48.9 (1.6) 47.3
Wealth Management interest income earned 34.3 6.6 1.4 – 42.3 – 42.3
Revenue 800.3 805.6 645.4 300.6 2,551.9 (14.9) 2,537.0
Fee expense (58.1) (194.9) (180.4) (40.9) (474.3) 2.1 (472.2)
Change in financial obligations in respect of carried interest – 5.9 – – 5.9 – 5.9
Wealth Management interest expense incurred (15.7) (2.5) (0.1) – (18.3) – (18.3)
Cost of sales (73.8) (191.5) (180.5) (40.9) (486.7) 2.1 (484.6)
Net operating revenue 726.5 614.1 464.9 259.7 2,065.2 (12.8) 2,052.4
Estimates and judgements – revenue
Carried interest represents the Group’s contractual right to a share of the profits of around 95 private asset investment vehicles  
(2019: 85 vehicles), if certain performance hurdles are met. It is recognised when the relevant services have been provided and it is highly 
probable that a significant reversal will not occur.
The amount of carried interest that will ultimately be received by the Group is dependent on the cash flows realised by the respective 
investment vehicles when the underlying investments are successfully disposed of. The resultant cash flows are assessed against the 
applicable performance hurdle, which is dependent on the capital invested and the timing and quantum of distributions to clients in the 
vehicle. For accounting purposes, the outcome is discounted to determine the present value of the carried interest to be recognised.
The Group estimates the cash flows that will be received by the investment vehicles with reference to the current fair value of the 
underlying investments. Judgement is applied to determine certain assumptions used in the estimate. Those assumptions principally relate 
to the future growth and the timing of cash flows following the realisation of the underlying investments. No future growth is assumed, 
reflecting the uncertainty of future investment returns. The timing of distributions to clients is based on individual investment managers’ 
expectations as to the realisation of cash flows from the successful disposal of the underlying individual securities.
The Group assesses the maturity of the respective investment vehicles by reference to the percentage of committed capital invested and 
original capital returned to clients. This helps the Group to understand whether a significant risk of reversal exists and to determine 
whether the revenue should be recognised or further constrained in accordance with the accounting standards. 
116 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
2. Net operating revenue continued
Estimates and judgements – cost of sales
The crystallisation of financial obligations in respect of carried interest (carried interest payable) is contingent on the Group receiving the 
related revenue. The Group therefore applies the same estimates and judgements as those used to determine the present value of the 
carried interest receivable, as set out on page 116, adjusted to reflect the portion that is payable to third parties. The actual amount payable 
at maturity will depend on the realised value of the carried interest receivable and may differ from the projected value. An increase in the 
growth rate of 3% would increase cost of sales by £2.8 million (2019: £3.2 million), although this would be smaller than the corresponding 
increase in revenue. An average acceleration/delay in crystallisation dates of one year would increase/reduce cost of sales by £1.6 million/  F
£3.0 million (2019: £3.0 million/£2.4million) and this amount would be lower than the corresponding increase/reduction in revenue.  ina
n
c
ia
l s
3. Net gain on financial instruments and other income ta
te
m
e
n
The Group’s net gain on financial instruments and other income principally arises from financial instruments it holds to support its capital  ts
strategies, which comprise operating capital, seed and co-investment capital and other investible equity. Operating capital is retained in the 
Group’s operating entities to meet minimum local regulatory capital requirements and other capital required for day-to-day operational 
purposes. Operating capital principally comprises cash and cash equivalents and other low-risk financial instruments, as well as financial 
instruments held to hedge fair value movements on certain deferred fund awards. Seed and co-investment capital represents strategic 
investments in the Group’s products to develop new investment strategies and co-invest selectively alongside clients. Seed and co-
investment capital is financed from investment capital and, where practical, the market risk on seed capital investments is hedged. Other 
investible equity held in excess of operating requirements is transferred to investment capital, which is managed centrally in accordance 
with limits approved by the Board.
A portion of the Group’s financial instruments measured at fair value are classified as financial instruments at fair value through profit or 
loss (FVTPL). Net gains and losses on financial instruments at FVTPL principally comprise market returns on investments in debt securities, 
equities, pooled investment vehicles, gains and losses on derivatives (which mainly arise from hedging activities) and gains and losses on 
contingent consideration arising from business combinations. Net gains and losses on financial instruments at FVTPL that are held to hedge 
deferred employee cash awards are presented separately and are included within operating expenses (see note 4). The cost of financial 
obligations in respect of carried interest (other than that relating to contingent consideration) is presented separately and is included within 
cost of sales (see note 2). In both instances, the presentation better reflects the substance of these transactions and provides more relevant 
information about the Group’s net income and operating expenses.
The remainder of the Group’s financial assets measured at fair value are classified as financial assets at fair value through other 
comprehensive income (FVOCI). Unrealised gains and losses on debt securities classified as financial assets at FVOCI are recorded in other 
comprehensive income, and the cumulative gains and losses are transferred to the income statement if the investment is sold or otherwise 
realised. Interest earned on these assets is recognised using the effective interest method and recorded as net finance income within net 
gains on financial instruments and other income. An explanation of how the Group’s financial assets and financial liabilities are classified 
and measured is included in notes 9 and 17. 
Expected credit losses are calculated on financial assets measured at amortised cost and debt instruments measured at FVOCI and are 
recognised in net gains on financial investment and other income in the income statement (see note 20).
Net finance income is derived from interest on non-banking activities, principally generated from cash and deposits with banks, but also as 
a result of holding investments in debt securities at amortised cost or FVOCI. Debt securities and cash held outside of Wealth Management 
entities are managed mainly by Group Treasury to earn competitive rates of return and provide liquidity throughout the Group. Significant 
amounts of the Group’s cash and interest-earning securities are held within Wealth Management and are managed by the Wealth 
Management treasury team. Interest earned on the assets held within Wealth Management is included in revenue and interest incurred on 
the liabilities assumed is included in cost of sales. Interest is recognised using the effective interest method (see note 2).
Other income includes amounts arising from ancillary services provided by Benchmark Capital, gains and losses on foreign exchange and 
rent receivable from subletting properties.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 117
Financial statements continued
Notes to the accounts continued
3. Net gain on financial instruments and other income continued
2020 2019
Other  Other 
Income comprehensive  Income  comprehensive 
statement income Total statement income Total
Year ended 31 December £m £m £m £m £m £m
Net gain on financial instruments at FVTPL 58.0 – 58.0 0.6 – 0.6
Net gain arising from fair value movements – 1.9 1.9 – 6.8 6.8
Net transfers on disposal  0.5 (0.5) – 0.5 (0.5) –
Net gain on financial assets at FVOCI 0.5 1.4 1.9 0.5 6.3 6.8
Net finance income 1.1 – 1.1 8.3 – 8.3
Other (loss)/income (3.7) – (3.7) 33.6 – 33.6
Net gain on financial instruments and other income1 55.9 1.4 57.3 43.0 6.3 49.3
Net gain on financial instruments held to hedge employee deferred 
cash awards – presented within operating expenses (see note 4) 25.6 – 25.6 21.3 – 21.3
Change in financial obligations in respect of carried interest – presented 
within cost of sales (see note 2) (12.5) – (12.5) 5.9 – 5.9
Net gain on financial instruments and other income – including 
amounts presented elsewhere 69.0 1.4 70.4 70.2 6.3 76.5
1. Includes a credit of £0.4 million (2019: £1.1 million credit) of exceptional items.
118 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
4. Operating expenses
Operating expenses represents the Group’s administrative expenses and is recognised as the services are received. Certain costs, such as 
depreciation of property, plant and equipment, are charged evenly over the life of the relevant contract or useful life of the asset. The 
biggest component of the Group’s operating expenses is the cost of employee benefits, as shown below. Other costs include 
accommodation, information technology, marketing and outsourcing costs.
The control of costs, including compensation costs, is a key performance objective of the Group. Compensation costs are managed 
to a target total compensation ratio of between 45% and 49%. Targeting a total compensation ratio range provides some flexibility to 
manage the overall cost base in response to market conditions. Total costs are managed to a target long-term key performance indicator  F
ratio of total costs to net income of 65%. ina
n
c
Employee benefits expense includes salaries and wages, together with the cost of other benefits provided to employees such as pension  ia
and bonuses. The Group makes some performance awards to employees that are deferred over a specified vesting period. Such awards are  l sta
charged to the income statement over the performance period and the vesting period. The Group holds investments that are linked to  te
m
these performance awards in order to hedge the related expense. Gains and losses on these investments are netted against the relevant  e
n
costs in the income statement but are presented separately below (see note 3). ts
Further detail on other employee benefits can be found elsewhere within these financial statements, see note 25 for pension costs and note 
26 for compensation that is awarded in Schroders plc shares.
(a) Employee benefits expense and number of employees
2020 2019
Year ended 31 December £m £m
Salaries, wages and other remuneration 871.5 855.6
Social security costs 82.5 84.2
Pension costs 54.1 44.1
Employee benefits expense 1,008.1 983.9
Net gain on financial instruments held to hedge deferred cash awards (25.6) (21.3)
Employee benefits expense – net of hedging 982.5 962.6
The employee benefits expense net of hedging of £982.5 million (2019: £962.6 million) includes £7.8 million (2019: £35.3 million) that is 
presented within exceptional items. This comprises £7.8 million (2019: £6.3 million) arising from acquisitions completed by the Group and, in 
2019, £29.0 million in relation to the cost reduction programme. 
Information about the compensation of key management personnel can be found in note 27. Details of the amounts payable to Directors along 
with the number of Directors who exercised share options in the year is provided in the Remuneration report on pages 75 to 102.
The monthly average number of employees of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings during the year was:
2020 2019
Number Number
Full-time employees 5,165 4,778
Contract and temporary employees 391 581
5,556 5,359
Employed as follows:
Asset Management 4,384 4,222
Wealth Management 1,142 1,101
Group 30 36
5,556 5,359
(b) Audit and other services
2020 2019
Year ended 31 December £m £m
Fees payable to the auditor for the audit of the Company and Consolidated financial statements 0.6 0.6
Fees payable to the auditor and its associates for other services:
Audit of the Company’s subsidiaries 3.6 3.4
Audit-related assurance services 1.1 1.0
Other assurance services 0.5 0.5
Other non-audit services – 0.1
5.8 5.6
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 119
Financial statements continued
Notes to the accounts continued
5. Tax expense
The Group is headquartered in the UK and pays taxes according to the rates applicable in the countries and states in which it operates. 
Most taxes are recorded in the income statement (see part (a)) and relate to taxes payable for the reporting period (current tax). The charge 
also includes benefits and charges relating to when income or expenses are recognised in a different period for tax and accounting 
purposes or specific treatment relating to acquisitions (deferred tax – see note 14). Some current and deferred taxes are recorded through 
other comprehensive income (see part (b)) or directly to equity, where the tax arises from changes in the value of remuneration settled as 
shares (see part (c)).
(a) Analysis of tax charge reported in the income statement
2020 2019
Year ended 31 December £m £m
UK current year charge 49.9 60.9
Rest of the world current year charge 69.3 67.7
Adjustments in respect of prior year estimates (4.8) (1.1)
Total current tax 114.4 127.5
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 0.5 (4.1)
Adjustments in respect of prior year estimates 5.0 2.5
Effect of changes in corporation tax rates 4.6 3.0
Total deferred tax 10.1 1.4
Tax charge reported in the income statement 124.5 128.9
(b) Analysis of tax charge/(credit) reported in other comprehensive income
2020 2019
Year ended 31 December £m £m
Current tax charge/(credit) on movements in financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 0.2 (1.1)
Deferred tax charge/(credit) on actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes 5.6 (4.0)
Deferred tax (credit)/charge on other movements through other comprehensive income (0.1) 1.5
Deferred tax - effect of changes in corporation tax rates (0.4) –
Tax charge/(credit) reported in other comprehensive income 5.3 (3.6)
(c) Analysis of tax credit reported in equity
2020 2019
Year ended 31 December £m £m
Current tax credit on Deferred Award Plan and other share-based remuneration (2.7) (2.6)
Deferred tax credit on Deferred Award Plan and other share-based remuneration (0.5) (2.6)
Deferred tax - effect of changes in corporation tax rates (0.3) –
Tax credit reported in equity (3.5) (5.2)
(d) Factors affecting tax charge for the year
The UK standard rate of corporation tax for 2020 is 19% (2019: standard rate of 19%). The tax charge for the year is higher (2019: higher) than a 
charge based on the UK standard rate. The differences are explained below:
2020 2019
Year ended 31 December £m £m
Profit before tax 610.5 624.6
Less share of profit of associates and joint ventures (43.1) (27.2)
Profit before tax of Group entities 567.4 597.4
Profit before tax of consolidated Group entities multiplied by corporation tax at the UK standard rate 107.8 113.5
Effects of:
Different statutory tax rates of overseas jurisdictions 5.9 8.0
Permanent differences including non-taxable income and non-deductible expenses 10.0 1.7
Net movement in temporary differences for which no deferred tax is recognised (4.0) 1.3
Deferred tax adjustments in respect of changes in corporation tax rates 4.6 3.0
Adjustments in respect of prior year estimates 0.2 1.4
Tax charge reported in the income statement 124.5 128.9
120 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
5. Tax expense continued
Estimates and judgements
The calculation of the Group’s tax charge involves a degree of estimation and judgement. Liabilities relating to open and judgemental 
matters, including those in relation to deferred taxes, are based on the Group’s assessment of the most likely outcome based on the 
information available. As a result, certain tax amounts are based on estimates using factors that are relevant to the specific judgement. 
The Group engages constructively and transparently with tax authorities with a view to early resolution of any uncertain tax matters. Where 
the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts provided, such differences will impact the tax charge in a future 
period. Such estimates are based on assumptions made on the probability of potential challenge within certain jurisdictions and the  F
possible outcome based on relevant facts and circumstances, including local tax laws. There was no individual judgemental component of  ina
n
the tax expense that was material to the Group results when taking into account the likely range of potential outcomes. c
ia
l s
ta
te
6. Earnings per share m
e
n
ts
This key performance indicator shows the portion of the Group’s profit after tax that is attributable to each share issued by the Company, 
excluding own shares held by the Group. The calculation is based on the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year. 
The diluted figure recalculates that number as if all share options that would be expected to be exercised, as they have value to the option 
holder, had been exercised in the year. Shares that may be issued are not taken into account if the impact does not reduce earnings 
per share.
Reconciliation of the figures used in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share:
2020 2019
Number Number
Year ended 31 December Millions Millions
Weighted average number of shares used in the calculation of basic earnings per share 276.2 276.2
Effect of dilutive potential shares – share options 5.0 4.8
Effect of dilutive potential shares – contingently issuable shares 0.1 0.1
Weighted average number of shares used in the calculation of diluted earnings per share 281.3 281.1
The pre-exceptional earnings per share calculations are based on profit after tax excluding non-controlling interest of £14.2 million 
(2019: £4.0 million). After exceptional items, the profit after tax attributable to non-controlling interest was £9.7 million (2019: £1.6 million).
7. Dividends
Dividends are distributions of profit to holders of the Group’s share capital, usually announced with the Group’s half-year and annual 
results. Dividends are recognised only when they are paid or approved by shareholders. The reduction in equity in the year therefore 
comprises the prior year final dividend and the current year interim dividend.
2021 2020 2019
Pence per  Pence per   Pence per  
£m share £m share £m share
Prior year final dividend paid 216.0 79.0 216.5 79.0
Interim dividend paid 95.7 35.0 95.8 35.0
Total dividends paid 311.7 114.0 312.3 114.0
Current year final dividend recommended 216.3 79.0
Dividends of £10.4 million (2019: £9.8 million) on shares held by employee benefit trusts have been waived and dividends may not be paid on 
treasury shares. The Board has recommended a 2020 final dividend of 79.0 pence per share (2019 final dividend: 79.0 pence), amounting to 
£216.3 million (2019 final dividend: £216.0 million). The dividend will be paid on 6 May 2021 to shareholders on the register at 26 March 2021 
and will be accounted for in 2021.
In addition, the Group paid £0.1 million of dividends to holders of non-controlling interests in subsidiaries of the Group during 2020 
(2019: £2.4 million), resulting in total dividends paid of £311.8 million (2019: £314.7 million).
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 121
Financial statements continued
Notes to the accounts continued
8. Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables includes prepayments and deposits with banks in the form of bullion as well as amounts the Group is due to 
receive from third parties in the normal course of business. Trade and other receivables, other than deposits with banks in the form of 
bullion, are recorded initially at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost (see note 9). Prepayments arise where the Group pays cash in 
advance for services. As the service is provided, the prepayment is reduced and the operating expense is recognised in the income 
statement. Accrued income, other than amounts relating to carried interest, represents unbilled revenue and is not dependent on future 
performance. Amounts due from third parties also include settlement accounts for transactions undertaken on behalf of funds and 
investors. Deposits with banks in the form of bullion are recorded at fair value.
2020 2019
Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Trade and other receivables held at amortised cost:
Fee debtors – 77.6 77.6 – 87.8 87.8
Settlement accounts – 155.2 155.2 – 150.2 150.2
Accrued income 53.8 430.2 484.0 71.2 365.5 436.7
Prepayments 6.2 52.3 58.5 0.1 42.4 42.5
Other receivables 7.6 39.5 47.1 16.2 51.4 67.6
Current tax – 14.8 14.8 – 16.5 16.5
67.6 769.6 837.2 87.5 713.8 801.3
Trade and other receivables held at fair value:
Deposits with banks in the form of bullion – 3.1 3.1 – 5.4 5.4
67.6 772.7 840.3 87.5 719.2 806.7
The fair value of trade and other receivables held at amortised cost approximates their carrying value. Deposits with banks in the form of 
bullion are categorised as level 1 in the fair value hierarchy (see note 9). 
Estimates and judgements
Accrued income includes £90.7 million of receivables in respect of carried interest (2019: £75.7 million). This income is due over a number of 
years and only when contractually agreed performance levels are exceeded. The income received may vary as a result of the actual 
experience, including future investment returns, differing from that assumed. Further information regarding the estimates and judgements 
applied is set out in note 2.
9. Financial assets
The Group holds financial assets including equities, debt securities, pooled investment vehicles and derivatives to support its Group capital 
strategies and its Wealth Management banking book, including loans to clients. The Group also enters into derivatives on behalf of Wealth 
Management clients, referred to as client facilitation (see note 19).
Classification and measurement
The Group initially records all financial assets at fair value. The Group subsequently holds each financial asset at FVTPL, FVOCI or amortised 
cost. Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability between market participants. Amortised cost 
is the amount determined based on moving the initial amount recognised for the financial instrument to the maturity value on a systematic 
basis using a fixed interest rate (the effective interest rate), taking account of repayment dates and initial expected premiums or discounts.
Financial assets at amortised cost
Financial assets are measured at amortised cost when their contractual cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest and 
they are held within a business model designed to collect cash flows. This classification typically applies to the Group’s loans and advances, 
trade receivables and some debt securities held by the Group’s Wealth Management entities. The carrying value of amortised cost financial 
assets is adjusted for impairment under the expected loss model (see note 3 and note 20).
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income
Financial assets are held at FVOCI when their contractual cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest and they are held 
within a business model designed to collect cash flows and to sell assets. This classification applies to certain debt securities within the 
Group’s Wealth Management entities and to debt securities held as part of the Group’s investment capital portfolio. Impairment is 
recognised for debt securities classified as FVOCI under the expected loss model (see note 3 and note 20).
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
All other financial assets are held at FVTPL. The Group’s financial assets at FVTPL principally comprise investments in debt securities, 
equities, pooled investment vehicles and derivatives.
122 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
9. Financial assets continued
Estimates and judgements – fair value measurements
The Group holds financial instruments that are measured at fair value. The fair value of financial instruments may be derived from readily 
available sources or may require some estimation. The degree of estimation involved depends on the individual financial instrument and is 
reflected in the fair value hierarchy below. The hierarchy also reflects the extent of judgements used in the valuation but this does not 
necessarily indicate that the fair value is more or less likely to be realised. Judgements may include determining which valuation approach 
to apply as well as determining appropriate assumptions. For level 2 and 3 financial instruments, the judgement applied by the Group gives 
rise to an estimate of fair value. The approach to determining the fair value estimate of level 2 and 3 financial instruments is set out below,  F
with no individual input giving rise to a material component of the carrying value for the Group. The fair value levels are based on the  ina
n
degree to which the fair value is observable and are defined as follows: c
ia
– Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities and  l sta
principally comprise investments in pooled investment vehicles, quoted equities, government debt and exchange-traded derivatives; te
m
e
– Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from prices that are not traded in an active market but are determined using valuation  n
techniques, which make maximum use of observable market data. The Group’s level 2 financial instruments principally comprise foreign  ts
exchange contracts, certain debt securities, asset and mortgage backed securities, and loans held at fair value. Valuation techniques may 
include using a broker quote in an inactive market or an evaluated price based on a compilation of primarily observable market 
information utilising information readily available via external sources. For funds not priced on a daily basis, the net asset value which 
is issued monthly or quarterly is used; and
– Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not 
based on observable market data. The Group’s level 3 financial assets principally comprise investments in private equity funds that are 
measured by applying appropriate valuation techniques in accordance with International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation 
Guidelines 2018. Level 3 financial assets also include investments in property investment vehicles that operate hotel businesses. These 
are valued based on the expected future cash flows that could be generated from the hotel business.
2020
Not at 
Level 1  Level 2  Level 3  fair value  Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Financial assets at amortised cost:
Loans and advances to banks – – – 206.5 206.5
Loans and advances to clients – – – 477.9 477.9
Debt securities – – – 107.9 107.9
– – – 792.3 792.3
Financial assets at FVOCI:
Debt securities  343.0 246.5 – – 589.5
343.0 246.5 – – 589.5
Financial assets at FVTPL:
Loans and advances to clients – 4.1 – – 4.1
Debt securities 99.0 168.0 6.2 – 273.2
Pooled investment vehicles 668.5 62.8 108.8 – 840.1
Equities 293.7 21.5 23.3 – 338.5
Derivative contracts 0.6 33.5 – – 34.1
1,061.8 289.9 138.3 – 1,490.0
1,404.8 536.4 138.3 792.3 2,871.8
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 123
Financial statements continued
Notes to the accounts continued
9. Financial assets continued
2019
Not at 
Level 1  Level 2  Level 3  fair value  Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Financial assets at amortised cost:
Loans and advances to banks – – – 350.2 350.2
Loans and advances to clients – – – 398.5 398.5
Debt securities – – – 67.0 67.0
– – – 815.7 815.7
Financial assets at FVOCI:
Debt securities 598.3 318.6 – – 916.9
598.3 318.6 – – 916.9
Financial assets at FVTPL:
Loans and advances to clients – 4.6 – – 4.6
Debt securities 4.4 213.6 5.6 – 223.6
Pooled investment vehicles 546.6 28.5 95.3 – 670.4
Equities 282.5 13.7 29.7 – 325.9
Derivative contracts 0.5 54.5 4.3 – 59.3
834.0 314.9 134.9 – 1,283.8
1,432.3 633.5 134.9 815.7 3,016.4
2020 2019
£m £m
Current 2,354.3 2,606.4
Non-current 517.5 410.0
2,871.8 3,016.4
The fair value of financial assets at amortised cost approximates their carrying value. No financial assets were transferred between levels during 
2020 (2019: none).
Movements in financial assets categorised as level 3 during the year were:
2020 2019
£m £m
At 1 January  134.9 116.4
Exchange translation adjustments  3.0 (2.4)
Net gain recognised in the income statement 4.1 1.3
Additions 23.3 35.2
Disposals (27.0) (15.6)
At 31 December  138.3 134.9
124 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
10. Associates and joint ventures
Associates are entities in which the Group has an investment and over which it has significant influence, but not control, through 
participation in the financial and operating policy decisions. Joint ventures are entities in which the Group has an investment where it, along 
with one or more other shareholders, has contractually agreed to share control of the business and where the major decisions require the 
unanimous consent of the joint partners. In both cases, the Group initially records the investment at the fair value of the purchase 
consideration, including purchase related costs. The Group’s income statement reflects its share of the entity’s profit or loss after tax and 
amortisation of intangible assets. The statement of other comprehensive income records the Group’s share of gains and losses arising from 
the entity’s financial assets at FVOCI (see note 9). The statement of financial position subsequently records the Group’s share of the net 
F
assets of the entity plus any goodwill and intangible assets that arose on purchase less subsequent amortisation. The statement of changes  in
a
in equity records the Group’s share of other equity movements of the entity. At each reporting date, the Group applies judgement to  n
c
determine whether there is any indication that the carrying value of associates and joint ventures may be impaired. ia
l s
The associates and joint ventures reserve in the statement of changes in equity represents the Group’s share of profits in its investments yet  tate
to be received (for example, in the form of dividends or distributions), less any amortisation of intangible assets. Certain associates are held  m
e
within financial assets at fair value through profit or loss at fair value where permitted by the accounting standards (see note 9). Information  nts
about the Group’s principal associates measured at fair value is disclosed within this note.
(a) Investments in associates and joint ventures accounted for using the equity method
2020 2019
Associates Joint ventures Total Associates Joint ventures Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 200.2 197.8 398.0 173.1 2.1 175.2
Exchange translation adjustments 2.0 (0.1) 1.9 (8.3) (0.1) (8.4)
Additions 0.2 2.5 2.7 12.6 196.3 208.9
Disposals (34.3) – (34.3) (0.7) – (0.7)
Profit/(loss) for the year after tax 48.5 (5.4) 43.1 26.9 0.3 27.2
Gains recognised in other comprehensive income 0.1 – 0.1 – – –
Other movements in reserves of associates and joint ventures 0.2 – 0.2 (0.7) – (0.7)
Distributions of profit (5.9) (0.6) (6.5) (2.7) (0.8) (3.5)
At 31 December 211.0 194.2 405.2 200.2 197.8 398.0
On 31 January 2020, the Group disposed of its 41.0% interest in RWC for £34.0 million. Peter Harrison disposed of his interest at the same time 
and on the same terms as the Group disposed of its interest. Also included in disposals are other movements in the carrying value of associates.
Information about the significant associates and joint ventures held by the Group at 31 December 2020 is shown below. The companies are 
unlisted.
Percentage 
Nature of its Principal place of  owned by the 
Name of associate or joint venture business business Class of share Group
Scottish Widows Schroder Wealth Holdings Limited (SPW) Wealth management England Ordinary shares 49.9%
Bank of Communications Schroder Fund Management Co. 
Ltd. (BoCom) Investment management China Ordinary shares 30.0%
Axis Asset Management Company Limited (Axis) Investment management India Ordinary shares 25.0%
A10 Capital Parent Company LLC (A10) Real estate lending USA Common units 19.3%
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 125
Financial statements continued
Notes to the accounts continued
10. Associates and joint ventures continued
2020 2019
SPW BoCom Axis A10 Other Total SPW RWC BoCom Axis A10 Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Non-current assets 216.0 36.7 13.1 953.2 2.2 1,221.2 217.3 1.7 28.3 16.9 894.2 4.3 1,162.7
Current assets 143.0 636.4 58.5 125.5 19.4 982.8 137.5 83.5 470.7 36.3 93.0 18.6 839.6
Non-current liabilities (22.0) (0.9) (4.7) (956.6) (0.7) (984.9) (20.1) (0.1) (4.2) (3.5) (882.4) (1.3) (911.6)
Current liabilities (68.1)(142.2) (6.8) (77.9) (3.7) (298.7) (63.2) (38.5) (101.5) (10.7) (61.4) (4.0) (279.3)
Total equity 268.9 530.0 60.1 44.2 17.2 920.4 271.5 46.6 393.3 39.0 43.4 17.6 811.4
Group’s share of net assets 134.2 159.0 15.0 8.5 6.1 322.8 135.5 19.1 118.0 9.8 8.4 5.7 296.5
Goodwill and intangible assets 60.9 – 10.4 1.2 13.0 85.5 63.7 9.7 – 11.0 1.3 19.2 104.9
Deferred tax liability (3.1) – – – – (3.1) (3.4) – – – – – (3.4)
Carrying value held by the Group 192.0 159.0 25.4 9.7 19.1 405.2 195.8 28.8 118.0 20.8 9.7 24.9 398.0
Net income 125.2 263.3 57.4 34.0 23.4 503.3 25.8 55.0 195.8 43.1 29.8 15.1 364.6
Profit/(loss) for the year (6.8) 141.7 22.7 4.0 4.1 165.7 0.8 10.6 66.5 11.3 5.5 0.2 94.9
Other comprehensive income – – – 0.5 – 0.5 – – – – – – –
Total comprehensive income (6.8) 141.7 22.7 4.5 4.1 166.2 0.8 10.6 66.5 11.3 5.5 0.2 94.9
Group’s share of profit/(loss) for the 
year before amortisation (3.4) 42.5 5.7 0.8 1.6 47.2 0.4 4.3 20.0 2.8 1.1 0.4 29.0
Amortisation charge (2.8) – – – (1.3) (4.1) (0.9) – – – – (0.9) (1.8)
Group’s share of profit/(loss) for the 
year (6.2) 42.5 5.7 0.8 0.3 43.1 (0.5) 4.3 20.0 2.8 1.1 (0.5) 27.2
Group’s share of other comprehensive 
income – – – 0.1 – 0.1 – – – – – – –
Group’s share of total 
comprehensive income (6.2) 42.5 5.7 0.9 0.3 43.2 (0.5) 4.3 20.0 2.8 1.1 (0.5) 27.2
(b) Investments in associates measured at fair value
Where the Group holds units in pooled investment vehicles that give the Group significant influence, but not control, through participation in the 
financial and operating policy decisions, the Group records such investments at fair value. Information about the Group’s principal associates 
measured at fair value is shown below. The investments are recorded as financial assets within the Group’s statement of financial position.
2020
Schroder 
Absolute Return  Schroder  Schroder  Schroder  Schroder All 
Emerging  Schroder ISF  Schroder  Global CB  Fusion  SPW  Long Dated  Maturities 
Markets Debt  Healthcare  Indian  Fund PPIT  Managed  ICBC (Europe)  Balanced  Corporate  Corporate 
Portfolio LP Innovation Equity Unhedged Defensive ECITS SICAV Portfolio Bond Bond
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Current assets 5.9 38.2 30.0 17.6 21.8 22.3 4.5 395.6 1,231.2
Current liabilities – – – – – – – – –
Total equity 5.9 38.2 30.0 17.6 21.8 22.3 4.5 395.6 1,231.2
Net income 0.4 2.1 – 2.2 0.6 0.2 – 11.1 20.8
Profit/(loss) for the year 0.4 2.1 – 2.2 0.6 0.2 – 11.1 20.7
Total comprehensive income 0.4 2.1 – 2.2 0.6 0.2 – 11.1 20.7
Country of incorporation USLuxembourg UK Japan UKLuxembourg UK UK UK
Percentage owned by the 
Group 30% 21% 23% 24% 25% 33% 24% 26% 34%
126 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
10. Associates and joint ventures continued
2019
Schroder  Schroder 
Advanced Beta  Absolute Return 
Global Equity  Schroder Fusion  Schroder  Schroder  Emerging  Schroder ISF 
Small and  Managed  Fusion  YEN Target  Schroder  Markets Debt  Dynamic Indian 
Mid Cap Defensive Portfolio 3 (Annual) India Equity Portfolio LP Income Bond
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Current assets 53.0 15.2 26.2 9.9 20.8 5.6 16.8
Current liabilities – – – – – – – F
in
a
Total equity 53.0 15.2 26.2 9.9 20.8 5.6 16.8 n
c
ia
l s
Net income 13.0 – – 0.5 0.1 0.4 0.1 tate
m
e
n
Profit for the year 12.7 – – 0.5 0.1 0.3 0.1 ts
Total comprehensive income 12.7 – – 0.5 0.1 0.3 0.1
Country of incorporation UK UK UK Japan UK US Luxembourg
Percentage owned by the Group 39% 34% 25% 34% 28% 28% 21%
11. Property, plant and equipment
The Group’s property, plant and equipment provides the infrastructure to enable the Group to operate, and principally comprises leasehold 
improvements, freehold land and buildings, fixtures and fittings and computer equipment. Assets are initially stated at cost, which includes 
expenditure associated with acquisition. The cost of the asset is recognised in the income statement as a depreciation charge on a straight 
line basis over the estimated useful life, with the exception of land as it is assumed to have an indefinite useful life. 
2020 2019
Leasehold  Land and  Other  Leasehold  Land and  Other 
improvements  buildings  assets  Total  improvements  buildings  assets  Total 
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 January 187.6 19.7 145.4 352.7 189.0 19.7 110.9 319.6
Exchange translation adjustments – – 0.9 0.9 (1.9) – (1.5) (3.4)
Additions 4.9 – 14.0 18.9 3.7 – 39.4 43.1
Disposals (3.8) – (2.8) (6.6) (3.2) – (3.4) (6.6)
At 31 December 188.7 19.7 157.5 365.9 187.6 19.7 145.4 352.7
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January (34.0) (0.9) (60.2) (95.1) (22.3) (0.6) (47.3) (70.2)
Exchange translation adjustments (0.1) – (0.2) (0.3) 1.2 – 1.0 2.2
Depreciation charge (19.6) (0.4) (19.6) (39.6) (14.3) (0.3) (16.6) (31.2)
Disposals 3.0 – 2.2 5.2 1.4 – 2.7 4.1
At 31 December (50.7) (1.3) (77.8) (129.8) (34.0) (0.9) (60.2) (95.1)
Net book value at 31 December 138.0 18.4 79.7 236.1 153.6 18.8 85.2 257.6
Right-of-use assets (see note 12) 354.8 394.7
Property, plant and equipment 
net book value at 31 December   590.9 652.3
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 127
Financial statements continued
Notes to the accounts continued
12. Leases
The Group’s lease arrangements primarily consist of operating leases relating to office space. 
The Group initially records a lease liability in the Group’s Consolidated statement of financial position reflecting the present value of the 
future contractual cash flows to be made over the lease term, discounted using the Group’s incremental borrowing rate. This is the rate that 
we would have to pay for a loan of a similar term, and with similar security to obtain an asset of similar value. A right-of-use (ROU) asset is 
also recorded at the value of the lease liability plus any directly related costs and estimated dilapidation expenses and is presented within 
property, plant and equipment (see note 11). Interest is accrued on the lease liability using the effective interest method to give a constant 
rate of return over the life of the lease whilst the balance is reduced as lease payments are made. The ROU asset is depreciated from 
commencement date to the earlier of the end of the useful life of the ROU asset or the end of the lease term as the benefit of the asset is 
consumed. Increases or decreases that occur at contractually agreed market rent review dates are included in the lease liability once revised 
market rents have been agreed. 
The Group considers whether the lease term should reflect options to extend or reduce the life of the lease. Relevant factors that could 
create an economic incentive to exercise the option are considered and the extensions/termination is included if it is reasonably certain to 
be exercised. After the commencement date, the Group reassesses the lease term if there is a significant event or change in circumstances 
that is within its control and affects the likelihood that it will exercise (or not exercise) the option. Should this occur, the Group modifies the 
lease liability and associated ROU asset to reflect the revised remaining expected cashflows.
2020 2019
Right-of-use Lease  Right-of-use  Lease 
assets  liabilities  assets Liabilities
£m £m £m £m
At 1 January 394.7 425.3 411.9 418.3
Exchange translation adjustments 0.1 (0.7) (4.0) (6.0)
Additions and remeasurements of lease obligations 4.4 5.0 27.1 27.1
Lease payments – (44.4) – (26.5)
Depreciation charge  (44.4) – (40.3) –
Interest expense – 12.0 – 12.4
At 31 December 354.8 397.2 394.7 425.3
The depreciation charge and interest expense relating to leases are recorded within operating expenses.
2020 2019
Lease liabilities – current 35.9 37.1
Lease liabilities – non-current 361.3 388.2
397.2 425.3
The Group’s lease liabilities contractually mature in the following time periods:
2020 2019
Later than 1 year  Later than 1 year 
No later than   and no later   Later than   No later than   and no later   Later than  
1 year than 5 years 5 years Total 1 year than 5 years 5 years Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Lease liabilities 48.7 161.9 283.5 494.1 50.0 142.7 354.7 547.4
13. Goodwill and intangible assets
Intangible assets (other than software) arise when the Group acquires a business and the fair value paid exceeds the fair value of the net 
tangible assets acquired. This premium reflects additional value that the Group determines to be attached to the business. Identifiable 
acquired intangible assets relating to business combinations include technology, contractual agreements to manage client assets and gain 
additional access to new or existing clients, geographies and brand names. Where such assets can be identified, they are classified as 
acquired intangible assets and amortised on a straight line basis, primarily over seven years.
Consideration paid to acquire a business in excess of the acquisition date fair value of net tangible and identifiable intangible assets is 
known as goodwill. Goodwill is not charged to the income statement unless its value has diminished. The assessment of whether goodwill 
has become impaired is based on the expected future returns of the relevant cash-generating unit (CGU) as a whole.
Software purchased and developed for use in the business is also classified as an intangible asset. The cost of purchasing and developing 
software is taken to the income statement over time as an amortisation charge within operating expenses. The treatment is similar to 
property, plant and equipment, and the asset is normally amortised on a straight line basis over three to five years, but can have an 
estimated useful life of up to 10 years.
128 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
13. Goodwill and intangible assets continued
2020 2019
Acquired  Acquired 
intangible  intangible 
Goodwill assets Software Total Goodwill assets Software Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 January 761.8 326.0 340.6 1,428.4 676.5 278.4 251.4 1,206.3
Exchange translation adjustments 16.6 5.4 0.6 22.6 (10.3) (3.6) (2.0) (15.9) F
in
Additions 33.3 31.4 73.9 138.6 104.5 51.2 99.8 255.5 an
c
Disposals – – (1.9) (1.9) (8.9) – (8.6) (17.5) ial s
At 31 December 811.7 362.8 413.2 1,587.7 761.8 326.0 340.6 1,428.4 tate
m
e
n
Accumulated amortisation ts
At 1 January – (182.7) (112.3) (295.0) – (154.1) (84.0) (238.1)
Exchange translation adjustments – (1.2) (0.6) (1.8) – 1.5 1.0 2.5
Amortisation charge for the year – (36.3) (48.5) (84.8) – (30.0) (37.2) (67.2)
Disposals – – 1.9 1.9 – (0.1) 7.9 7.8
At 31 December – (220.2) (159.5) (379.7) – (182.7) (112.3) (295.0)
Carrying amount at 31 December 811.7 142.6 253.7 1,208.0 761.8 143.3 228.3 1,133.4
The Group acquired £29.1 million (2019: £49.9 million) of intangible assets as a result of business combinations completed in 2020 (see note 29). 
The Group also acquired £2.3 million (2019: £1.3 million) of customer contracts through Benchmark Capital that were not considered to be 
business combinations.
Estimates and judgements
The Group estimates the fair value of intangible assets acquired at the acquisition date based on forecast profits, taking account of 
synergies, derived from existing contractual arrangements. This assessment involves judgement in determining assumptions relating to 
potential future revenues, profit margins, appropriate discount rates and the expected duration of client relationships. The difference 
between the fair value of the consideration and the value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired, including intangible assets, is 
accounted for as goodwill.
At each reporting date, the Group applies judgement to determine whether there is any indication that goodwill or an acquired intangible 
asset may be impaired. If any indication exists and a full assessment determines that the carrying value exceeds the estimated recoverable 
amount at that time, the assets are written down to their recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of goodwill is determined using a discounted cash flow model. Any impairment is recognised immediately in the 
income statement and cannot be reversed. Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to the CGUs that are expected to 
benefit from that business combination. For all relevant acquisitions, it is the Group’s judgement that the lowest level of CGU used to 
determine impairment is segment level for Asset Management. The Benchmark Capital business within Wealth Management is assessed 
separately from the rest of Wealth Management. Of the total goodwill, £583.1 million (2019: £556.6 million) is allocated to Asset 
Management and £228.6 million (2019: £205.2 million) is allocated to Wealth Management, of which £68.1 million (2019: £66.1 million) 
relates to Benchmark Capital. 
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value-in-use calculations applying a discounted cash flow model using the 
Group’s five-year strategic business plan cash flows. The key assumptions on which the Group’s cash flow projections are based include 
long-term market growth rates of 2% per annum (2019: 2%), a pre-tax discount rate of 10% (2019: 10%), expected flows and expected 
changes to margins. The results of the calculations indicate that goodwill is not impaired.
The sensitivity of the carrying amounts of goodwill to the methods and assumptions used in estimating the recoverable amounts 
of the CGUs is small. This is due to the amount of goodwill allocated to the relevant CGU relative to the size of the relevant future 
profitability estimate.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 129
Financial statements continued
Notes to the accounts continued
13. Goodwill and intangible assets continued
Movements in the growth rate and/or the discount rate of 1% would not lead to any impairment. A comparison of actual results to the 
projected results used to assess goodwill impairment in prior years shows that the Group would have recognised no changes (2019: nil) 
to its goodwill asset in the year as a result of inaccurate projections.
The recoverable amount of acquired intangible assets is the greater of fair value less costs to sell and the updated discounted valuation 
of the remaining net residual income stream. Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement but may be reversed 
if relevant conditions improve.
14. Deferred tax
Deferred tax assets and liabilities represent amounts of tax that will become recoverable and payable in future accounting periods. They 
arise as a result of temporary differences, where the time at which profits and losses are recognised for tax purposes differs from the time at 
which the relevant transaction is recorded. A deferred tax asset represents a tax reduction that is expected to arise in a future period based 
on past transactions. A deferred tax liability represents taxes that will become payable in a future period as a result of current or prior 
year transactions.
Deferred tax liabilities also arise on certain acquisitions where the amortisation of the acquired intangible asset does not result in a tax 
deduction. The deferred tax liability is established on acquisition and is released to the income statement to match the intangible asset 
amortisation.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the 
liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the year end date.
2020 2019
Accelerated  Deferred  Other net  Accelerated  Deferred  Other net 
capital  employee  Pension  temporary  capital  employee  Pension  temporary 
allowances awards schemes differences Total allowances awards schemes differences Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January (5.7) 77.3 (22.3) (28.6) 20.7 (2.1) 75.6 (26.1) (19.7) 27.7
Restatement on adoption of new 
accounting standards – – – – – – – – 0.6 0.6
Income statement (charge)/credit 1.3 1.1 (0.5) (7.4) (5.5) (4.3) 4.4 (0.3) 1.8 1.6
Income statement (charge)/credit due 
to changes in tax rates (0.3) 3.2 (3.4) (4.1) (4.6) 0.6 (4.0) 0.1 0.3 (3.0)
(Charge)/credit to other 
comprehensive income – – (5.6) 0.1 (5.5) – – 4.0 (1.5) 2.5
Credit/(charge) to statement of other 
comprehensive income due to changes in 
tax rates – – 0.6 (0.2) 0.4 – – – – –
Credit to equity – 0.5 – – 0.5 – 2.6 – – 2.6
Credit to equity due to changes in tax rates – 0.3 – – 0.3 – – – – –
Business combinations (see note 29) – – – (5.5) (5.5) – (0.1) – (9.9) (10.0)
Exchange translation adjustments 0.1 (0.1) – 0.6 0.6 0.1 (1.2) – (0.2) (1.3)
At 31 December (4.6) 82.3 (31.2) (45.1) 1.4 (5.7) 77.3 (22.3) (28.6) 20.7
On 11 March 2020 it was announced (and enacted on 22 July 2020) that the UK corporation tax rate would remain at 19% and not reduce to 17% 
(the previously enacted rate) from 1 April 2020. The UK deferred tax balances have been calculated with reference to the rate of 19%. In response 
to the global pandemic, various governments around the world have taken significant steps to support their relevant economies. This has led to 
increased government borrowing, which may have an impact on future corporation tax rates when enacted. Any such changes will have an 
impact on deferred tax assets and liabilities.
A deferred tax asset of £7.6 million (2019: £19.0 million) relating to realised and unrealised capital losses has not been recognised as there 
is insufficient evidence that there will be sufficient taxable gains in the future against which the deferred tax asset could be utilised. A deferred 
tax asset of £11.1 million (2019: £9.9 million) relating to other losses and other temporary differences have not been recognised as there is 
insufficient evidence that there will be sufficient taxable profits in the future against which these deferred tax assets could be utilised.
After offsetting deferred tax assets and liabilities where appropriate within territories, the net deferred tax asset comprises:
2020 2019
£m £m
Deferred tax assets 32.9 36.9
Deferred tax liabilities (31.5) (16.2)
1.4 20.7
130 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
15. Unit-linked liabilities and assets backing unit-linked liabilities
The Group operates a unit-linked life assurance business through the wholly-owned subsidiary Schroder Pension Management Limited (the 
Life Company). The Life Company provides investment products through a life assurance wrapper. The investment products do not provide 
cover for insurance risk and are therefore recognised and accounted for as financial instruments and presented as financial liabilities due to 
Life Company investors (policyholders) within unit-linked liabilities.
The investment product is almost identical to a unit trust. As it is a life assurance product, the contractual rights and obligations of the 
investments remain with the Group and the AUM is therefore included on the Group’s statement of financial position, together with the 
liability to investors. The Group earns fee income from managing the investment, which is included in revenue. F
in
Financial assets and liabilities held by the Life Company are measured at FVTPL. Other balances include cash and receivables, which are  an
c
measured at amortised cost (see note 9). The Life Company’s assets are regarded as current assets as they represent the amount available  ia
to Life Company investors (or third party investors in consolidated funds) who are able to withdraw their funds on call, subject to certain  l sta
restrictions in the case of illiquidity. Gains and losses from assets and liabilities held to cover investor obligations are attributable to investors  te
m
in the Life Company or third party investors in the funds. As a result, any gain or loss is offset by a change in the obligation to investors. e
n
ts
2020 2019
£m £m
Financial liabilities due to Life Company investors 9,727.6 9,814.1
Financial liabilities due to third parties1 2,358.6 2,611.8
12,086.2 12,425.9
1. In accordance with the accounting standards, the Group is deemed to hold a controlling interest in certain funds as a result of the investments held by the Life 
Company. This results in all of the assets and liabilities of those funds being consolidated within the Group’s Consolidated statement of financial position and the 
third party interest in the fund being recorded as a financial liability due to third party investors.
The Group has no primary exposure to market risk, credit risk or liquidity risk in relation to the investments due to Life Company investors. The 
risks and rewards associated with its investments are normally borne by the investors in the Life Company’s investment products or third party 
investors in the funds and not by the Life Company itself.
Fair value measurements of Life Company financial assets and liabilities
Each of the Life Company’s financial assets and liabilities has been categorised using a fair value hierarchy as shown below. These levels are 
based on the degree to which the fair value is observable and are defined in note 9.
2020
Not at 
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 fair value Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Assets backing unit-linked liabilities 9,459.7 1,728.6 28.1 869.8 12,086.2
Unit-linked liabilities 11,963.8 58.9 – 63.5 12,086.2
2019
Not at 
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 fair value Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Assets backing unit-linked liabilities 8,724.3 2,596.2 29.5 1,075.9 12,425.9
Unit-linked liabilities 12,310.5 56.5 – 58.9 12,425.9
The fair value of financial instruments not held at fair value approximates their carrying value.
The types of investments found in each of the levels 1 and 3 for the Life Company are the same as those listed for the non-Life Company 
instruments in note 9. Level 2 investments principally comprise commercial paper, certificates of deposit, forward foreign exchange contracts 
and certain debt securities. No financial assets were transferred between levels during the year (2019: none). 
Movements in financial assets categorised as level 3 during the year were:
2020 2019
£m £m
At 1 January 29.5 37.3
Exchange translation adjustments (0.9) (1.8)
Net gain recognised in the income statement 3.4 2.7
Additions 2.1 1.4
Disposals (6.0) (10.1)
At 31 December 28.1 29.5
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 131
Financial statements continued
Notes to the accounts continued
16. Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables includes amounts the Group is due to pay in the normal course of business, accruals and deferred income, being 
fees received in advance of services provided as well as deferred cash awards and bullion deposits by customers. Trade and other payables, 
other than deferred cash awards and bullion deposits, are recorded initially at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost (see note 9). 
Amounts due to be paid to the Group in the normal course of business are made up of creditors and accruals. Accruals represent costs, 
including remuneration, that are not yet billed or due for payment, but for which the goods or services have been received. Deferred cash 
awards, being deferred employee remuneration payable in cash, and bullion deposits by customers are recorded at fair value.
2020 2019
Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Trade and other payables at amortised cost:
Settlement accounts – 151.7 151.7 – 145.0 145.0
Trade creditors – 11.0 11.0 – 15.7 15.7
Social security 21.0 70.1 91.1 24.1 65.8 89.9
Accruals and deferred income 13.4 463.3 476.7 24.2 459.3 483.5
Other payables 0.3 18.9 19.2 0.2 25.9 26.1
34.7 715.0 749.7 48.5 711.7 760.2
Trade and other payables at fair value:
Deferred cash awards 84.7 90.2 174.9 83.4 72.7 156.1
Bullion deposits by customers – 3.1 3.1 – 5.4 5.4
84.7 93.3 178.0 83.4 78.1 161.5
119.4 808.3 927.7 131.9 789.8 921.7
The fair value of trade and other payables held at amortised cost approximates their carrying value. The fair value of bullion deposits by 
customers is derived from level 1 inputs (see note 9). The fair value of deferred cash awards is derived from level 1 inputs, being equal to the fair 
value of the units in funds to which the employee award is linked.
The Group’s trade and other payables contractually mature in the following time periods:
2020 2019
£m £m
Less than 1 year1 808.3 789.8
1 – 2 years 59.0 59.6
2 – 5 years 59.3 72.1
More than 5 years 1.1 0.2
119.4 131.9
927.7 921.7
1. Settlement accounts are generally settled within four working days and trade creditors have an average settlement period of 23 working days 
(2019: 21 working days).
132 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
17. Financial liabilities
The Group’s financial liabilities principally comprise deposits by Wealth Management clients and banking counterparties. They also include 
derivatives held for client facilitation or interest rate matching in Wealth Management (see note 19), and the hedging of risk exposures 
within investment capital. Other financial liabilities at fair value mainly comprise liabilities that arise from financial obligations in respect 
of carried interest, contingent consideration and other financial liabilities arising from acquisitions completed by the Group, and third party 
interests in consolidated funds. Consolidation occurs when the Group is deemed to control a fund, usually in respect of Life Company or 
seed capital investments. When a fund is consolidated, the Group accounts for the fund in its statement of financial position as if it were 
wholly-owned by the Group, but records an additional liability representing the fair value of the proportion of the fund owned by third-party 
F
investors. Where the investment is held by the Life Company, the fair value of the proportion of the fund owned by third-party investors is  in
a
shown as part of unit-linked liabilities (see note 15). Each instrument has been categorised within one of three levels using a fair value  n
c
hierarchy (see note 9). ia
l s
ta
te
m
2020 e
n
Not at  ts
Level 1  Level 2  Level 3  fair value  Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Financial liabilities at amortised cost:
Client accounts – – – 3,550.3 3,550.3
Deposits by banks – – – 72.8 72.8
Other financial liabilities – – – 5.5 5.5
– – – 3,628.6 3,628.6
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss:
Derivative contracts (see note 19) 3.9 29.1 – – 33.0
Other financial liabilities 279.9 – 143.7 – 423.6
283.8 29.1 143.7 – 456.6
283.8 29.1 143.7 3,628.6 4,085.2
2019
Not at 
Level 1  Level 2  Level 3  fair value  Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Financial liabilities at amortised cost:
Client accounts – – – 3,041.3 3,041.3
Deposits by banks – – – 97.1 97.1
Other financial liabilities – – – 7.3 7.3
– – – 3,145.7 3,145.7
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss:
Derivative contracts (see note 19) 3.1 39.6 – – 42.7
Other financial liabilities 187.6 – 155.1 – 342.7
190.7 39.6 155.1 – 385.4
190.7 39.6 155.1 3,145.7 3,531.1
For the maturity profiles of client accounts, deposits by banks and derivative contracts see notes 19 and 20.
The fair value of financial liabilities held at amortised cost approximates their carrying value.
2020 2019
£m £m
Current 3,945.5 3,386.8
Non-current 139.7 144.3
4,085.2 3,531.1
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 133
Financial statements continued
Notes to the accounts continued
17. Financial liabilities continued
Estimates and judgements
The carrying value of financial liabilities may involve estimation or be derived from readily available sources. Financial liabilities have been 
categorised using a fair value hierarchy that reflects the extent of estimates and judgements used in the valuation (see note 9). The Group’s 
financial liabilities categorised as level 3 principally consist of obligations arising from contingent consideration, third party liabilities related 
to carried interest arrangements and other financial liabilities arising from prior acquisitions completed by the Group. Information about the 
estimates and judgements made in determining the fair value of carried interest payable is set out in note 2.
The carrying values of level 3 financial liabilities are typically derived from an estimate of the expected future cash flows required to settle 
the liability. 
Movements in financial liabilities categorised as level 3 during the year were:
2020 2019
£m £m
At 1 January  155.1 154.4
Exchange translation adjustments  4.6 (2.9)
Net loss/(gain) recognised in the income statement 14.6 (12.0)
Additions 18.4 54.4
Disposals and settlements (49.0) (38.8)
At 31 December  143.7 155.1
18. Provisions and contingent liabilities
Provisions are liabilities where there is uncertainty over the timing or amount of settlement and therefore usually require the use of 
estimates. They are recognised when three conditions are fulfilled: when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a 
result of a past event, when it is probable that the Group will incur a loss in order to settle the obligation and when a reliable estimate can be 
made of the amount of the obligation. They are recorded at the Group’s best estimate of the cost of settling the obligation. Any differences 
between those estimates and the amounts for which the Group actually becomes liable are taken to the income statement as additional 
charges where the Group has underestimated and credits where the Group has overestimated. Where the estimated timing and settlement 
is longer term, the amount is discounted using a rate reflecting specific risks associated with the provision.
Contingent liabilities are potential liabilities, which could include a dependency on events not within the Group’s control, but where there is a 
possible obligation. Contingent liabilities are only disclosed where significant and are not included within the statement of financial position.
Legal, regulatory 
Dilapidations and other Total
£m £m £m
At 1 January 2020 14.9 17.3 32.2
Exchange translation adjustments (0.1) 0.3 0.2
Provisions utilised – – –
Additional provisions charged  0.4 2.8 3.2
Unused amounts reversed  – (9.2) (9.2)
At 31 December 2020 15.2 11.2 26.4
134 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
18. Provisions and contingent liabilities continued
Legal, regulatory 
Dilapidations and other Total
£m £m £m
Current – 2020 – 5.2 5.2
Non-current – 2020 15.2 6.0 21.2
15.2 11.2 26.4
F
in
Current – 2019 0.7 3.2 3.9 a
n
c
Non-current – 2019 14.2 14.1 28.3 ia
l s
14.9 17.3 32.2 tate
m
The Group’s provisions are expected to mature in the following time periods: en
ts
2020 2019
£m £m
Less than 1 year 5.2 3.9
1 – 2 years 7.5 15.6
2 – 3 years 1.5 0.1
3 – 4 years 0.3 –
4 – 5 years – 0.8
More than 5 years 11.9 11.8
21.2 28.3
26.4 32.2
Dilapidation provisions associated with the Group’s office leases have a weighted average maturity of 13 years (2019: 16 years).
Legal and regulatory obligations associated with the Group’s business arise from past events that are estimated to crystallise mainly within two 
years (2019: two years). These matters are ongoing.
Estimates and judgements
The timing and amount of settlement of each legal claim or potential claim, regulatory matter and constructive obligation is uncertain. 
The Group applies judgement to determine whether a provision is required. The Group performs an assessment of the timing and amount 
of each event and reviews this assessment periodically. For some provisions there is greater certainty as the cash flows have largely been 
determined. Potential legal claims, regulatory related costs and other obligations to third parties arise as a consequence of normal business 
activity. They can arise from actual or alleged breaches of obligations and may be covered by the Group’s insurance arrangements, but 
subject to insurance excess. In certain circumstances, legal and regulatory claims can arise despite there being no error or breach. The 
Group’s risk management and compliance procedures are designed to mitigate, but are not able to eliminate, the risk of losses occurring. 
Where such claims and costs arise there is often uncertainty over whether a payment will be required and estimation is required in 
determining the quantum and timing of that payment. As a result, there is also uncertainty over the timing and amount of any insurance 
recovery, although this does not change the likelihood of insurance cover being available, where applicable. The Group makes periodic 
assessments of all cash flows, including taking external advice where appropriate, to determine an appropriate provision. Some matters 
may be settled through commercial negotiation as well as being covered in whole or in part by the Group’s insurance arrangements. The 
Group has made provisions based on the reasonable expectation of likely outflows. The inherent uncertainty in such matters and the results 
of negotiations and insurance cover may result in different outcomes.
At 31 December 2020, there are no key judgements or estimates that would result in any additional material provisions being recognised 
or any material contingent liabilities being disclosed in the financial statements (31 December 2019: none). The provisions included in the 
financial statements at 31 December 2020 are based on estimates of reasonable ranges of likely outcomes, applying assumptions regarding 
the probability of payments being due and the settlement value. The aggregate reasonable ranges have been assessed as not materially 
different to the carrying values.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 135
Financial statements continued
Notes to the accounts continued
19. Derivative contracts
(a) The Group’s use of derivatives
The Group holds derivatives for risk management, client facilitation and within its investment portfolios to provide exposure to market 
returns. The Group most commonly uses forward foreign exchange contracts, where it agrees to buy or sell specified amounts of a named 
currency at a future date, allowing the Group effectively to fix exchange rates so that it can avoid unpredictable gains and losses on financial 
instruments in foreign currencies. The Group uses equity contracts to hedge market-related gains and losses on its seed capital investments 
where the purpose of investing is to help establish a new product rather than gain additional market exposure. Interest rate contracts are 
used to hedge exposures to fixed or floating rates of interest.
The Group designates certain derivatives as hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation. In these scenarios, and where relevant 
conditions are met, hedge accounting is applied and the Group formally documents the relationship between the derivative and any hedged 
item, its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking the various hedging transactions. It also documents its assessment, 
both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in 
offsetting changes in the fair value of hedged items. In respect of hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation, the portion of the gain 
or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in other comprehensive income. The 
Group’s net investment hedges are generally fully effective, but any ineffective portion that may arise is recognised in the income statement. 
On disposal of the foreign operation, the cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised directly in other comprehensive 
income is transferred to the income statement.
Risk management: the Group actively seeks to limit and manage its exposures to risk where that exposure is not desired by the Group. 
This may take the form of unwanted exposures to a particular currency, type of interest rate or other price risk. By entering into derivative 
contracts, the Group is able to mitigate or eliminate such exposures. The principal risk that the Group faces through such use of derivative 
contracts is credit risk.
Client facilitation: the Group’s Wealth Management entities are involved in providing portfolio management, banking and investment advisory 
services, primarily to private clients. In carrying out this business, they transact as agent or as principal in financial assets and liabilities (including 
derivatives) in order to facilitate client portfolio requirements. Wealth Management’s policy is to hedge, as appropriate, market risk on its client 
facilitation positions. This does not eliminate credit risk.
For details of how the Group manages its exposure to credit risk, see below and note 20.
(b) Derivatives used by the Group
Forwards are contractual obligations to buy or sell foreign currency on a future date at a specified exchange rate. The maximum exposure to 
credit risk is represented by the fair value of the contracts.
Currency and interest rate swaps are commitments to exchange one set of cash flows for another. Swaps result in an economic exchange of 
currencies or interest rates (for example, fixed rate for floating rate) or a combination of all these (i.e. cross-currency interest rate swaps). No 
exchange of principal takes place, except in the case of certain currency swaps. The Group’s credit risk represents the potential cost of replacing 
the swap contracts if counterparties fail to perform their obligations. This risk is monitored on an ongoing basis with reference to the current fair 
value, the proportion of the notional amount of the contracts, and the liquidity of the market. To control the level of credit risk taken, the Group 
assesses counterparties in accordance with its internal policies and procedures.
Foreign exchange, equity and interest rate options are contractual agreements under which the seller grants the purchaser the right, but not the 
obligation, either to buy (a call option) or sell (a put option) at or by a set date or during a set period, a specific amount of a foreign currency or a 
financial instrument at a predetermined price. The seller receives a premium from the purchaser and assumes foreign exchange, equity or 
interest rate risk. Options may be either exchange-traded or negotiated between the Group and a customer or market counterparty.
The Group is exposed to credit risk on purchased options only, and only to the extent of their carrying amount, which is their fair value.
Futures contracts are standardised contracts to buy or sell specified assets for an agreed price at a specified future date. Contracts are 
negotiated at a futures exchange, which acts as an intermediary between the two parties. For futures contracts, the maximum exposure to credit 
risk is represented by the fair value of the contracts.
136 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
19. Derivative contracts continued
(b) Derivatives used by the Group continued
The fair value of derivative instruments becomes favourable (assets) or unfavourable (liabilities) as a result of fluctuations in market interest 
rates, indices, foreign exchange rates and other relevant variables relative to their terms. The aggregate contractual amount of derivative 
financial instruments held, the extent to which instruments are favourable or unfavourable, and thus the aggregate fair values of derivative 
financial assets and liabilities, can fluctuate significantly from time to time. The fair values are set out below:
2020 2019
Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities
£m £m £m £m
F
Forward foreign exchange contracts 32.2 (21.1) 49.1 (29.1) ina
n
Equity contracts 1.9 (11.9) 10.2 (13.6) cia
l s
34.1 (33.0) 59.3 (42.7) ta
te
m
e
2020 2019 nts
Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities
£m £m £m £m
Net-settled derivative contracts1 maturing/repricing2 in:
Less than 1 year 1.9 (11.9) 5.9 (13.6)
1 – 3 years – – 4.3 –
3 – 5 years – – – –
More than 5 years – – – –
1.9 (11.9) 10.2 (13.6)
Gross-settled derivatives3 maturing/repricing2 in less than 1 year:
Gross inflows 1,402.2 874.4 1,118.7 322.3
Gross outflows (1,374.1) (889.8) (1,082.0) (337.2)
Difference between future contractual cash flows and fair value 4.1 (5.7) 12.4 (14.2)
32.2 (21.1) 49.1 (29.1)
34.1 (33.0) 59.3 (42.7)
1. Interest rate and equity contracts.
2. Whichever is earlier.
3. Forward foreign exchange contracts.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 137
Financial statements continued
Notes to the accounts continued
20. Financial instrument risk management
The Group Capital Committee (GCC) is responsible for the management of the Group’s capital and sets objectives for how it is deployed. This 
note explains how the Group manages its capital, setting out the nature of the risks the Group faces as a result of its operations, and how 
these risks are quantified and managed.
The Group is exposed to different forms of financial instrument risk including: (i) the risk that money owed to the Group will not be received 
(credit risk); (ii) the risk that the Group may not have sufficient cash available to pay its creditors as they fall due (liquidity risk); and (iii) the 
risk that the value of assets will fluctuate as a result of movements in factors such as market prices, interest rates and foreign exchange 
rates (market risk). The management of such risks is embedded in managerial responsibilities fundamental to the wellbeing of the Group.
The Group’s primary exposure to financial instrument risk is derived from the financial instruments that it holds as principal. In addition, 
due to the nature of the business, the Group’s exposure extends to the impact on investment management and other fees that are 
determined on the basis of a percentage of AUM and are therefore impacted by the financial instrument risk exposure of our clients – the 
secondary exposure. This note deals only with the direct or primary exposure of the risks from the Group’s holding of financial instruments 
(see the Key risks and mitigations report on page 50).
The Life Company provides investment products through a life assurance wrapper. The financial risks of these products are largely borne by 
the third party investors, consistent with other investment products managed by the Group. However, since the Life Company, which is a 
subsidiary, issues the investment instrument and holds the relevant financial assets, both the investments and the third party obligations 
are recorded in the statement of financial position. Financial instrument risk management disclosures in respect of the Life Company’s 
financial instruments are set out in note 15.
(a) Capital
The Group’s approach to capital management is to maintain a strong capital position to enable us to invest in the future of the Group, in line 
with our strategy, and to support the risks inherent in conducting our business. Capital management is an important part of our risk 
management framework and is underpinned by our Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP). The ICAAP considers the relevant 
current and future risks to the business and the capital we consider necessary to support these risks. We actively monitor our capital base to 
ensure we maintain sufficient and appropriate capital resources to cover the relevant risks to the business and to meet consolidated and local 
regulatory and working capital requirements.
Our lead regulator is the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) as the Group includes an entity with a UK banking licence. We are required to 
maintain adequate capital resources to meet our Total Capital Requirement (TCR) of £874 million (2019: £858 million). The TCR incorporates our 
Pillar 1 regulatory capital requirement of £717 million (2019: £679 million). In addition to the TCR of our banking group, we are required to hold 
additional capital of £256 million (2019: £269 million) in respect of our insurance companies and regulatory buffers. The Group’s overall 
regulatory capital requirement was £1,130 million at 31 December 2020 (2019: £1,127 million).
In managing our capital position, we consider the composition of our capital base, which consists of: working capital deployed to support the 
Group’s general operating activities and regulatory requirements; investment capital held in excess of these operating requirements; and other 
items that are not investible or otherwise available to meet our operating or regulatory requirements.
The table below shows the components of our capital position:
2020 2019
£m £m
Working capital – regulatory and other 1,548 1,216
Working capital – seed and co-investment 612 578
Investment capital – liquid 320 408
Investment capital – illiquid 97 148
Other items 1,509 1,498
Total equity 4,086 3,848
(i) Working capital
The Group’s policy is for subsidiaries to hold sufficient working capital to meet their regulatory and other operating requirements.  
Local regulators oversee the activities of, and impose minimum capital and liquidity requirements on, the Group’s operating entities.  
The Group complied with all externally imposed regulatory capital requirements during the year. 
Working capital is also deployed through certain subsidiaries to support new investment strategies and growth opportunities and to co-invest 
alongside the Group’s clients.
138 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
20. Financial instrument risk management continued
(a) Capital continued
(ii) Investment capital
Available capital held in excess of working capital requirements is transferred to investment capital. Investment capital is managed with the aim 
of achieving a low-volatility return. It is mainly held in investment grade corporate bonds and funds managed by the Group. Liquid investments 
are available to support the organic development of existing and new business strategies and to respond to other investment and growth 
opportunities as they arise, such as acquisitions. Investment capital also includes certain commercial private equity investments and illiquid 
legacy investments.
(iii) Other items Fin
a
Other items comprises assets that are not investible or available to meet the Group’s general operating or regulatory requirements. It includes  n
c
assets that are actually or potentially inadmissible for regulatory capital purposes, principally goodwill, intangible assets and pension scheme  ial s
surplus. ta
te
The tables below provide a detailed breakdown of the Group’s capital in accordance with IFRS 9: m
e
n
2020 ts
Financial assets  Financial 
at fair value  instruments 
Financial  through other  at fair value 
instruments at  comprehensive  through  Non-financial  
amortised cost   income   profit or loss1 instruments   Total 
£m £m £m £m £m
Assets
Cash and cash equivalents 3,469.6 – – – 3,469.6
Trade and other receivables 763.9 – – 76.4 840.3
Financial assets:
Loans and advances to banks 206.5 – – – 206.5
Loans and advances to clients  477.9 – 4.1 – 482.0
Debt securities 107.9 589.5 273.2 – 970.6
Pooled investment vehicles – – 840.1 – 840.1
Equities – – 338.5 – 338.5
Derivatives – – 34.1 – 34.1
Associates and joint ventures – – – 405.2 405.2
Property, plant and equipment – – – 590.9 590.9
Goodwill and intangible assets – – – 1,208.0 1,208.0
Deferred tax – – – 32.9 32.9
Retirement benefit scheme surplus – – – 168.2 168.2
Assets backing unit-linked liabilities 869.8 – 11,216.4 – 12,086.2
Total assets 5,895.6 589.5 12,706.4 2,481.6 21,673.1
Liabilities
Trade and other payables 658.6 – 174.9 94.2 927.7
Financial liabilities 3,628.6 – 456.6 – 4,085.2
Lease liabilities 397.2 – – – 397.2
Current tax – – – 21.5 21.5
Provisions 26.4 – – – 26.4
Deferred tax – – – 31.5 31.5
Retirement benefit scheme deficits – – – 11.5 11.5
Unit-linked liabilities 63.5 – 12,022.7 – 12,086.2
Total liabilities 4,774.3 – 12,654.2 158.7 17,587.2
Capital 4,085.9
1. Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss includes £11,255.0 million of assets that are designated at fair value through profit or loss and £1,451.4 million 
that are mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss. Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss includes £12,602.4 million of liabilities that 
are designated at fair value through profit or loss and £51.8 million that are mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 139
Financial statements continued
Notes to the accounts continued
20. Financial instrument risk management continued
(a) Capital continued
2019
Financial assets 
at fair value Financial 
Financial  through other  instruments at fair 
instruments at  comprehensive  value through Non-financial  
amortised cost   income profit or loss1 instruments   Total 
£m £m £m £m £m
Assets
Cash and cash equivalents 2,660.3 – – – 2,660.3
Trade and other receivables 742.3 – – 64.4 806.7
Financial assets: 
Loans and advances to banks 350.2 – – – 350.2
Loans and advances to clients 398.5 – 4.6 – 403.1
Debt securities 67.0 916.9 223.6 – 1,207.5
Pooled investment vehicles – – 670.4 – 670.4
Equities – – 325.9 – 325.9
Derivatives – – 59.3 – 59.3
Associates and joint ventures – – – 398.0 398.0
Property, plant and equipment – – – 652.3 652.3
Goodwill and intangible assets – – – 1,133.4 1,133.4
Deferred tax – – – 36.9 36.9
Retirement benefit scheme surplus – – – 136.3 136.3
Assets backing unit-linked liabilities 1,075.9 – 11,350.0 – 12,425.9
Total assets 5,294.2 916.9 12,633.8 2,421.3 21,266.2
Liabilities
Trade and other payables 670.3 – 156.1 95.3 921.7
Financial liabilities 3,145.7 – 385.4 – 3,531.1
Lease liabilities 425.3 – – – 425.3
Current tax – – – 54.1 54.1
Provisions – – – 32.2 32.2
Deferred tax – – – 16.2 16.2
Retirement benefit scheme deficits – – – 12.2 12.2
Unit-linked liabilities 58.9 – 12,367.0 – 12,425.9
Total liabilities 4,300.2 – 12,908.5 210.0 17,418.7
Capital 3,847.5
1. Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss includes £11,391.8 million of assets that are designated at fair value through profit or loss and £1,242.0 million 
that are mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss. Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss includes £12,823.2 million of liabilities that 
are designated at fair value through profit or loss and £85.3 million that are mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss.
(b) Credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk
The Group is exposed to credit, liquidity and market risk as a result of the financial instruments it holds. Settlement of financial instruments 
(on both a principal and agency basis) also gives rise to operational risk. The Group’s risk management framework is critical to effective 
management of these risks and considerable resources are dedicated to this area. Risk management is the direct responsibility of the Board, 
with responsibility for oversight delegated to the Audit and Risk Committee. The Group applies the three lines of defence model to risk 
management, which includes financial instrument risk. More details on the risk management framework and approach are set out in the Key 
risks and mitigations report and the Audit and Risk Committee report on pages 50 and 69 respectively.
(i) Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty to a financial instrument, loan or commitment will cause the Group financial loss by failing to discharge 
their obligations. For this purpose, the impact on fair value of a credit loss arising from credit spread price changes in a portfolio of investments 
is excluded. This risk is addressed within pricing risk.
140 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
20. Financial instrument risk management continued
(b) Credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk continued
(i) Credit risk continued
The Group has exposure to credit risk from its normal activities where it is exposed to the risk that a counterparty will be unable to pay, in full, 
amounts when due. The Group carefully manages its exposure to credit risk by: approving lending policies that specify the type of acceptable 
collateral and minimum lending margins; setting limits for exposures to individual counterparties and sectors; and by taking security. The 
Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the gross carrying value of its financial assets.
Externally published credit ratings are indicators of the level of credit risk associated with a counterparty. A breakdown of the Group’s relevant 
financial assets held with rated and unrated counterparties is set out below: Fin
a
Cash and cash equivalents Loans and advances to banks  Debt securities  nc
2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 ial s
£m £m £m £m £m £m ta
Credit rating: tem
e
AAA 140.4 320.9 – – 257.8 172.3 nts
AA+ 159.2 16.4 – 8.5 9.1 9.2
AA 277.3 1,072.9 55.2 26.4 11.0 418.8
AA- 2,131.6 342.2 27.1 125.0 159.9 91.7
A+ 437.7 446.7 119.5 157.4 139.9 98.4
A 44.9 318.2 – 24.1 40.0 60.7
A- 231.7 117.3 4.7 8.8 59.5 59.1
BBB+ and lower 44.7 24.0 – – 206.5 186.3
Not rated 2.1 1.7 – – 86.9 111.0
3,469.6 2,660.3 206.5 350.2 970.6 1,207.5
Expected credit losses are calculated on all of the Group’s financial assets that are measured at amortised cost and all debt instruments that are 
measured at fair value through other comprehensive income. Factors considered in determining whether a default has taken place include how 
many days past the due date a payment is, deterioration in the credit quality of a counterparty, and knowledge of specific events that could 
influence a counterparty’s ability to pay.
A three stage model is used for calculating expected credit losses, which requires financial assets to be assessed as:
– Performing (stage 1) – Financial assets where there has been no significant increase in credit risk since original recognition; 
– Under-performing (stage 2) – Financial assets where there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition, but no default; 
or,
– Non-performing (stage 3) – Financial assets that are in default.
For financial assets in stage 1, expected credit losses are calculated based on the credit losses that are expected to be incurred over the following 
12-month period. For financial assets in stages 2 and 3, expected credit losses are calculated based on credit losses expected to be incurred over 
the life of the instrument. The Group applies the simplified approach to calculate expected credit losses for trade and other receivables. Under 
this approach, instruments are not categorised into three stages and expected credit losses are calculated based on the life of the instrument.
Wealth Management activities
All client credit requests are presented to the relevant Wealth Management approval authorities and counterparty exposures are monitored 
daily against limits. Loans, overdrafts and advances to clients, as well as certain derivative positions, are secured on a range of assets including 
real estate (both residential and commercial), cash, client portfolios and life assurance policies.
The Group does not usually provide loans, overdrafts or advances to clients on an unsecured basis. Where disposal of non-cash collateral is 
required, in the event of default, the terms and conditions relevant to the specific contract and country will apply. Portfolios held as collateral are 
marked to market daily and positions compared to clients’ exposures. Credit limits are set following an assessment of the market value and 
lending value of each type of collateral, depending on the perceived risk associated with the collateral. Clients are contacted if these limits are 
expected to be or are breached, or if collateral is not sufficient to cover the outstanding exposure.
The collateral accepted by the Group includes certain investment-grade securities that can be sold or repledged without default of the provider. 
At 31 December 2020, the fair value of collateral that could be sold or repledged but had not been, relating solely to these arrangements, was 
£831.8 million (2019: £632.4 million).
Policies covering various counterparty and market risk limits are set and monitored by the relevant Wealth Management asset and liability 
management committees. All instruments held within the Wealth Management treasury book have an investment grade credit rating. 
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 141
Financial statements continued
Notes to the accounts continued
20. Financial instrument risk management continued
(b) Credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk continued
(i) Credit risk continued
Wealth Management takes a conservative approach to its treasury investments, placing them with, or purchasing debt securities issued by, 
UK and overseas banks and corporates, central banks, supranational banks and sovereigns.
Expected credit losses on financial assets at amortised cost within the Wealth Management entities at 31 December 2020 were £0.4 million 
(2019: £0.3 million). Loans and advances to clients includes one under-performing (stage 2) loan of £2.9 million (2019: none) and £2.0 million of 
non-performing (stage 3) loans (2019: £1.6 million) giving rise to nil and £0.2 million of expected credit losses respectively (2019: nil and £0.2 
million respectively). All other financial assets at amortised cost (excluding trade and other receivables to which the three stage model is not 
applied) were performing (stage 1) (2019: same).
Expected credit losses on financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income within the Wealth Management entities at 
31 December 2020 were £0.3 million (2019: £0.2 million). All financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income were performing 
(stage 1) (2019: same).
Other activities
Fee debtors and other receivables arise as a result of the Group’s asset management activities and amounts are monitored regularly. 
Historically, default levels have been insignificant and unless a client has withdrawn its funds, there is an ongoing relationship between 
the Group and the client.
Fee debtors past due but not in default as at 31 December 2020 were £54.3 million (31 December 2019: £45.0 million), the majority of which 
were less than 90 days past due (31 December 2019: less than 90 days).
The Group seeks to manage its exposure to credit risk arising from debt securities and derivatives within the investment portfolio by adopting 
a conservative approach and through ongoing credit analysis. Corporate bond portfolios have an investment grade mandate, and exposure to 
sub-investment grade debt is low.
Most derivative positions, other than forward foreign exchange contracts, are taken in exchange-traded securities where there is minimal credit 
risk. Forward foreign exchange positions generally have a maturity between one and three months.
The Group’s cash and cash equivalents in the non-Wealth Management entities are held primarily in current accounts, on deposit with well-rated 
banks, or invested in money market funds.
Expected credit losses on financial assets at amortised cost within non-Wealth Management entities at 31 December 2020 were £0.7 million 
(2019: £0.7 million). All financial assets at amortised cost (excluding trade and other receivables to which the three stage model is not applied) 
were performing (stage 1) (2019: same).
Expected credit losses on financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income within non-Wealth Management entities at 
31 December 2020 were £0.3 million (2019: £0.4 million). Debt securities includes £10.7 million of under-performing (stage 2) securities  
(2019: £11.0 million) giving rise to £0.1 million of expected credit losses (2019: £0.1 million). All other financial assets at fair value through other 
comprehensive income were performing (stage 1) (2019: same).
(ii) Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group cannot meet its obligations as they fall due or can only do so at a cost. The Group has a clearly defined 
liquidity risk management framework in place in the form of a Consolidated Group Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process (ILAAP). 
The Group policy is that its subsidiaries should trade solvently, comply with regulatory liquidity requirements and have access to adequate 
liquidity for all activities undertaken in the normal course of business. As part of its ILAAP, the Group performs stress testing to confirm that 
sufficient liquidity is available to cover severe but plausible stress events. 
Wealth Management activities
The principal liquidity risk in the Group’s Wealth Management business arises as a result of its banking activities, where the timing of cash flows 
from liabilities relating to client accounts can be impacted by client action. The objective of the Group’s liquidity policy is to maintain sufficient 
liquidity within the relevant entities to meet regulatory and prudential requirements, to cover cash flow imbalances and fluctuations in funding 
and the timely repayment of funds to depositors.
Liquidity positions are actively monitored and cash flows are managed so that sufficient liquidity is available to cover potential liquidity risks.
142 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
20. Financial instrument risk management continued
(b) Credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk continued
(ii) Liquidity risk continued
The contractual maturity of Wealth Management financial assets and liabilities is set out below:
2020
Less than 1 year 1–2 years 2–3 years 3–4 years 4–5 years More than 5 years Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Assets
F
Cash and cash equivalents 2,894.1 – – – – – 2,894.1 in
a
Loans and advances to banks 189.9 – – – – – 189.9 nc
ia
Loans and advances to clients 228.9 49.8 77.4 56.6 69.3 – 482.0 l s
ta
Debt securities 322.6 107.3 – – – – 429.9 te
m
Other financial assets 13.9 – – – – – 13.9 en
ts
Total financial assets 3,649.4 157.1 77.4 56.6 69.3 – 4,009.8
Liabilities
Client accounts 3,550.3 – – – – – 3,550.3
Deposits by banks 72.8 – – – – – 72.8
Other financial liabilities 20.9 – – – – – 20.9
Total financial liabilities 3,644.0 – – – – – 3,644.0
Cumulative gap 5.4 162.5 239.9 296.5 365.8 365.8 365.8
2019
Less than 1 year 1–2 years 2–3 years 3–4 years 4–5 years More than 5 years Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Assets
Cash and cash equivalents 2,076.1 – – – – – 2,076.1
Loans and advances to banks 335.9 – – – – – 335.9
Loans and advances to clients 203.5 51.7 33.3 25.5 74.2 14.9 403.1
Debt securities 589.4 53.9 – – – – 643.3
Other financial assets 12.4 – – – – – 12.4
Total financial assets 3,217.3 105.6 33.3 25.5 74.2 14.9 3,470.8
Liabilities
Client accounts 3,041.3 – – – – – 3,041.3
Deposits by banks 97.1 – – – – – 97.1
Other financial liabilities 21.5 – – – – – 21.5
Total financial liabilities 3,159.9 – – – – – 3,159.9
Cumulative gap 57.4 163.0 196.3 221.8 296.0 310.9 310.9
Other activities
The Group’s exposure to liquidity risk outside of its Wealth Management activities is low. Excluding the Life Company and consolidated funds, the 
Asset Management and Group segment together hold cash and cash equivalents of £527.8 million (2019: £502.3 million). Financial liabilities 
relating to other operating entities are £441.2 million (2019: £371.2 million).
The Group has a committed revolving credit facility of £595.0 million (2019: £510.0 million), which expires on 4 October 2024. The facility was 
undrawn at 31 December 2020 (31 December 2019: undrawn).
(iii) Market risk
Market risk is the risk that the value of assets will fluctuate as a result of movements in factors such as market prices, interest rates and foreign 
exchange rates.
Pricing risk
Pricing risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in market prices other 
than those arising from interest rate risk or currency risk.
In respect of financial instrument risk, the Group’s exposure to pricing risk is principally through investments held in investment capital,  
seed and co-investment capital, deferred employee compensation in the form of fund awards and some investments held for regulatory  
capital purposes.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 143
Financial statements continued
Notes to the accounts continued
20. Financial instrument risk management continued
(b) Credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk continued
(iii) Market risk continued
Pricing risk continued
The Group does not hedge exposures to pricing risk except in relation to seed capital, where it is practical to do so, and in respect of deferred 
employee compensation awards, where these can be matched by interests in funds managed by the Group. Where financial instruments are 
held to hedge deferred compensation awards, movements in the fair value of the asset are normally offset by changes in the amounts payable 
to employees (see note 4).
Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in market interest 
rates.
Wealth Management activities
In Wealth Management, interest rate risk is monitored against policies and limits set by the relevant risk committee on a daily basis. Interest rate 
risk is managed within set limits by matching asset and liability positions and through the use of interest rate swaps.
Sensitivity-based and stress-based models are used for monitoring interest rate risk. These models assess the impact of a prescribed basis point 
rise in interest rates, and the potential impact of severe but plausible stress scenarios.
Other activities
Cash held by the other operating companies is not normally expected to be placed on deposit for longer than three months and is not exposed 
to significant interest rate risk.
The Group’s capital includes investments in corporate investment-grade bonds managed by the Group’s fixed income fund managers.  
The market risk (including interest rate risk) exposure of these investments is actively monitored against limits set by the Board.
Foreign exchange risk
Foreign exchange risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in foreign 
exchange rates.
Wealth Management activities
In Wealth Management, some loans and advances to clients, client deposits and a proportion of the treasury activities are undertaken in foreign 
currencies. This is managed by the treasury departments within agreed limits that are set and monitored by the relevant risk committees.
Other activities
The Group’s policy in relation to foreign exchange risks arising from revenue, expenditure and capital currency exposure from its Asset 
Management activities is generally not to hedge. The Group’s revenue is earned and expenditure incurred in many currencies and the resulting 
exposure is considered to be a normal part of the Group’s business activities.
The Group also has exposure to foreign currency through investments in currencies other than sterling. The Group uses forward foreign 
exchange contracts with third parties to mitigate this exposure. The gain or loss on these contracts is included in the statement of other 
comprehensive income or the income statement, as appropriate. The use of such instruments is subject to approval by the GCC.
The sensitivities to market risk are estimated as follows:
31 December 2020 31 December 2019
A reasonable change  Increase/ A reasonable change in  Increase/ 
in the variable within   (decrease) in   the variable within   (decrease) in  
the next calendar year post-tax profit the next calendar year post-tax profit
Variable1 % £m % £m
Interest rates2 -increase 0.2 1 0.8 4
-decrease (0.4) (2) (0.5) (2)
US dollar against sterling -strengthen 10 2 10 3
-weaken (10) (2) (10) (2)
Euro against sterling -strengthen 8 1 8 1
-weaken (8) (1) (8) (1)
US dollar against Euro -strengthen 10 4 10 3
-weaken (10) (3) (10) (2)
FTSE-All Share Index3 -increase 20 38 20 39
-decrease (20) (38) (20) (39)
1. The underlying assumption is that there is one variable increase/decrease with all other variables held constant.
2. Assumes that the fair value of assets and liabilities will not be affected by a change in interest rates.
3. Assumes that changes in the FTSE-All Share Index correlate to changes in the fair value of the Group’s equity investments.
The reasonable changes in variables will have no impact on any other components of equity. These sensitivities concern only the direct impact 
on financial instruments and exclude indirect impacts on fee income and certain costs that may be affected by changes in the variable. The 
changes used in the sensitivity analysis were provided by the Group’s Global Economics team who determine reasonable assumptions.
144 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
21. Share capital and share premium
Share capital represents the number of issued ordinary and non-voting ordinary shares in Schroders plc multiplied by their nominal value of 
£1 each. Share premium substantially represents the aggregate of all amounts that have ever been paid above nominal value to Schroders 
plc when it has issued ordinary and non-voting ordinary shares. There are certain circumstances in which the share premium can be reduced 
but these did not arise in 2019 or 2020. The Company has no authority to issue, buy back, or cancel ordinary shares in issue (including those 
held in trust) and has authority limited by shareholder resolution to issue or purchase non-voting ordinary shares, which may either be 
cancelled or held in treasury.
F
in
Non-voting   a
n
Number   Ordinary   ordinary   Total   Share   c
ofM sihllaiorness   sha£rems sha£rems sha£rems premiu£mm ial sta
At 1 January 2020 282.5 226.0 56.5 282.5 124.2 tem
e
At 31 December 2020 282.5 226.0 56.5 282.5 124.2 n
ts
Non-voting  
Number   Ordinary   ordinary   Total   Share  
of shares   shares shares shares premium
Millions £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2019 282.5 226.0 56.5 282.5 124.2
At 31 December 2019 282.5 226.0 56.5 282.5 124.2
2020   2019  
Number   Number  
of shares   of shares  
Millions Millions
Issued and fully paid:
Ordinary shares of £1 each 226.0 226.0
Non-voting ordinary shares of £1 each 56.5 56.5
282.5 282.5
The difference between the share classes
The non-voting ordinary shares carry the same rights as ordinary shares except that they do not confer the right to attend and vote at any 
general meeting of the Company, and that on a capitalisation issue they carry the right to receive non-voting ordinary shares rather 
than ordinary shares.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 145
Financial statements continued
Notes to the accounts continued
22. Own shares
Own shares are recorded by the Group when non-voting ordinary shares are acquired by the Company, or ordinary or non-voting ordinary 
shares are acquired through employee benefit trusts. This enables the Group to hold some of its shares in treasury to settle option exercises 
or for other permitted purposes. Own shares are held at cost and their purchase reduces the Group’s net assets by the amount spent.  
When shares vest unconditionally or are cancelled, they are transferred from own shares to the profit and loss reserve at their weighted 
average cost.
Movements in own shares during the year were as follows:
2020 2019
£m £m
At 1 January (169.1) (163.9)
Own shares purchased (58.3) (81.0)
Awards vested 67.6 75.8
At 31 December (159.8) (169.1)
During the year 2.4 million own shares (2019: 2.8 million own shares) were purchased and held for hedging share-based awards. 2.6 million 
shares (2019: 2.8 million shares) awarded to employees vested in the period and were transferred out of own shares.
The total number of shares in the Company held within the Group’s employee benefit trusts comprise:
2020 2019
Number of   Number of  Number of  Number of 
vested   unvested   vested   unvested  
shares   shares   Total   shares   shares   Total  
Millions Millions Millions Millions Millions Millions
Ordinary shares 2.4 6.2 8.6 2.0 6.3 8.3
Non-voting ordinary shares 0.1 – 0.1 – 0.1 0.1
2.5 6.2 8.7 2.0 6.4 8.4
2020 2019
Vested   Unvested   Vested   Unvested  
shares shares Total shares shares Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Ordinary shares:
Cost 58.1 159.6 217.7 43.9 168.4 212.3
Fair value 82.7 207.7 290.4 66.5 210.7 277.2
Non-voting ordinary shares:
Cost 0.2 0.2 0.4 0.1 0.7 0.8
Fair value 0.6 0.3 0.9 0.7 1.0 1.7
Total:
Cost 58.3 159.8 218.1 44.0 169.1 213.1
Fair value 83.3 208.0 291.3 67.2 211.7 278.9
146 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
23. Reconciliation of net cash from operating activities
This note should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated cash flow statement. It provides a reconciliation to show how profit before 
tax, which is based on accounting rules, translates to cash flows.
2020 2019
£m £m
Profit before tax 610.5 624.6
F
in
a
Adjustments for income statement non-cash movements: nc
ia
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and amortisation of intangible assets 168.8 138.7 l s
ta
Net gain on financial instruments (71.6) (28.3) te
m
Share-based payments 56.1 61.6 e
n
Net release for provisions (5.3) (9.0) ts
Other non-cash movements 6.3 (20.9)
154.3 142.1
Adjustments for which the cash effects are investing or financing activities:
Net finance income (1.1) (8.3)
Interest expense on lease liabilities 12.0 12.4
Share of profit of associates and joint ventures (43.1) (27.2)
(32.2) (23.1)
Adjustments for statement of financial position movements:
Decrease in loans and advances within Wealth Management 77.8 198.8
Increase in trade and other receivables (6.9) (101.0)
Increase/(decrease) in deposits and client accounts within Wealth Management 453.6 (101.5)
Decrease in trade and other payables, other financial liabilities and provisions (26.7) (57.5)
497.8 (61.2)
Adjustments for Life Company and consolidated pooled investment vehicles movements:
Net decrease/(increase) in financial assets backing unit-linked liabilities 113.4 (795.6)
Net (decrease)/increase in unit-linked liabilities (339.7) 1,170.0
Net (decrease)/increase in cash within consolidated pooled investment vehicles (34.2) 48.8
(260.5) 423.2
Tax paid (137.4) (103.6)
Net cash from operating activities 832.5 1,002.0
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 147
Financial statements continued
Notes to the accounts continued
24. Commitments
Commitments represent amounts the Group has contractually committed to pay to third parties but do not yet represent a liability or impact 
the Group’s financial results for the year.
The Group’s commitments primarily relate to investment call commitments, commitments for property, plant and equipment and future 
leases not yet commenced and commitments under IT service agreements.
The Group sublets a small number of its owned and leased properties where such properties, or parts of such properties, are not required 
for use by the Group. The table below discloses the commitments sub-lessees have made in respect of such arrangements. These 
commitments are not recorded on the statement of financial position in advance of the period to which they relate.
2020
Later than 1 year 
No later than   and no later   Later than  
1 year than 5 years 5 years Total
£m £m £m £m
Undrawn loan facilities 4.7 55.4 – 60.1
Investment call commitments 74.5 18.2 1.8 94.5
Commitments for property, plant and equipment and leases 16.4 26.1 21.3 63.8
Commitments under IT service agreements 12.0 22.5 – 34.5
Total commitments 107.6 122.2 23.1 252.9
Operating leases receivable as lessor (1.3) (3.0) (1.3) (5.6)
Net commitments payable 106.3 119.2 21.8 247.3
2019
Later than 1 year  
No later than   and no later   Later than  
1 year than 5 years 5 years Total
£m £m £m £m
Undrawn loan facilities – 47.9 – 47.9
Investment call commitments 32.3 – 2.1 34.4
Commitments for purchase of property, plant and equipment 2.2 1.4 – 3.6
Commitments under IT service agreements 12.0 34.5 – 46.5
Total commitments 46.5 83.8 2.1 132.4
Operating leases receivable as lessor (1.2) (3.8) (1.9) (6.9)
Net commitments payable 45.3 80.0 0.2 125.5
Office property sub-leases have a weighted average term of 3 years (2019: 4 years) and rentals are fixed for a weighted average term of 3 years 
(2019: 4 years). 
148 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
25. Retirement benefit obligations
The Group has two principal types of pension benefit for employees: defined benefit (DB), where the Group has an obligation to provide 
participating employees with pension payments that represent a specified percentage of their final salary for each year of service, and 
defined contribution (DC), where the Group’s contribution to an employee’s pension is measured as, and limited to, a specified percentage of 
salary.
Accounting for DB schemes requires an assessment of the likely quantum of future pension payments to be made. If ring-fenced assets are 
held specifically to meet this cost, the scheme is funded, and if not, it is unfunded. The Group periodically reviews its funded DB schemes 
using actuarial specialists to assess whether it is on course to meet the expected pension payments that current and former employees are,  F
or will be, entitled to. In the case of a projected shortfall, a plan must be formulated to reverse the deficit. ina
n
c
The income statement charge or credit represents the sum of pension entitlements earned by employees in the period, plus a notional net  ia
interest charge (if the scheme is in deficit) or income (if it is in surplus) based on the market yields on high quality corporate bonds.  l sta
Experience differences, principally the difference between actual investment returns and the notional interest amount, as well as actuarial  te
m
changes in estimating the present value of future liabilities are recorded in other comprehensive income. e
n
ts
Assets or liabilities recognised in the statement of financial position represent the differences between the fair value of plan assets (if any) 
and the actuarially-determined estimates of the present value of future liabilities. The Group closed its largest DB scheme to future accrual 
on 30 April 2011, although it still operates some small unfunded schemes overseas. This means that no future service will contribute to the 
closed scheme member benefits but those members continue to have the benefits determined by the Scheme rules as at 30 April 2011.
The Group’s exposure to funding DC pension schemes is limited to the contributions it has agreed to make. These contributions generally 
stop when employment ceases. The income statement charge represents the contributions the Group has agreed to make into employees’ 
pension schemes in that period.
The disclosures within this note are provided mainly in respect of the principal DB scheme, which is the DB section of the funded Schroders 
Retirement Benefits Scheme (the Scheme).
The income statement charge for retirement benefit costs is as follows:
2020 2019
£m £m
Pension costs – defined contribution plans 55.0 51.6
Pension credit – defined benefit plans (1.1) (7.7)
Other post-employment benefits 0.2 0.2
54.1 44.1
(a) Profile of the Scheme
The Scheme is administered by a trustee company, Schroder Pension Trustee Limited (the Trustee). The board of the Trustee comprises an 
independent chairman, three directors appointed by the employer and two directors elected by the Scheme members. The Trustee is required 
by law to act in the interest of all relevant beneficiaries and is responsible for setting the investment strategy and for the day-to-day 
administration of the benefits. The Trustee’s investment committee comprises four of the Trustee directors and two representatives of the 
Group. This committee, which reports to the Trustee board, is responsible for making investment strategy recommendations to the board 
of the Trustee and for monitoring the performance of the investment manager.
Under the Scheme, employees are entitled to annual pensions on retirement based on a specified percentage of their final pensionable salary 
or, in the case of active members at 30 April 2011 (the date the DB section of the Scheme closed for future accrual), actual pensionable salaries 
at that date, for each year of service. These benefits are adjusted for the effects of inflation, subject to a cap of 2.5% for pensions accrued after 
12 August 2007 and 5.0% for pensions accrued before that date.
As at 31 December 2020, there were no active members in the DB section (2019: nil) and 2,159 active members in the DC section (2019: 2,127). 
The weighted average duration of the Scheme’s DB obligation is 19 years (2019: 18 years).
Membership details of the DB section of the Scheme as at 31 December are as follows:
2020 2019
Number of deferred members 1,199 1,251
Total deferred pensions (at date of leaving Scheme) £8.2m per annum £9.4m per annum
Average age (deferred) 52 52
Number of pensioners 937 885
Average age (pensioners) 70 70
Total pensions in payment £20.8m per annum £20.4m per annum
(b) Funding requirements
The last completed triennial valuation of the Scheme was carried out as at 31 December 2017. The funding level at that date was 115% on the 
technical provisions basis and no contribution to the Scheme was required. The next triennial valuation is due as at 31 December 2020 and will 
be performed in 2021.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 149
Financial statements continued
Notes to the accounts continued
25. Retirement benefit obligations continued
(c) Risks of the Scheme
The Company and the Trustee have agreed a long-term strategy for reducing investment risk as and when appropriate. This includes an 
asset-liability matching policy that aims to reduce the volatility of the funding level of the Scheme by investing in assets that perform in line with 
the liabilities of the Scheme.
The most significant risks to which the Scheme exposes the Group are:
Asset volatility
The liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields. If assets underperform this yield, this will reduce 
the surplus or may create a deficit. The Group manages this risk by holding 71% (2019: 64%) of Scheme assets in a liability matching portfolio 
and the remainder in growth assets such as the Schroder Life Diversified Growth Fund. This asset mix is designed to provide returns that match 
or exceed the unwinding of the discount rate in the long term, but that can create volatility and risk in the short term. The allocation to growth 
assets is monitored to ensure it remains appropriate given the Scheme’s long-term objectives.
Credit risk
The assets of the Scheme include LDI and other fixed income instruments that expose the Group to credit risk. A significant amount of this 
exposure is to the UK Government as a result of holding gilts and bonds guaranteed by the UK Government. Other instruments held include 
derivatives, which are collateralised daily to cover unrealised gains or losses. The minimum rating for any derivatives counterparty is BBB.
Interest rate risk
A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase the value placed on the Scheme’s liabilities for accounting purposes, although this should be 
partially offset by an increase in the value of the Scheme’s liability matching portfolio, which comprises gilts, corporate bonds and other LDI 
instruments. The liability matching investments have been designed to mitigate interest rate exposures measured on a funding rather than an 
accounting basis. One of the principal differences between these bases is that the liability under the funding basis is calculated using a discount 
rate set with reference to gilt yields; the latter uses corporate bond yields. As a result, the liability matching portfolio hedges against interest rate 
risk by purchasing instruments that seek to replicate movements in gilt yields rather than corporate bond yields. Movements in the different 
types of instrument are not exactly correlated, and it is therefore likely that a tracking error can arise when assessing whether the liability 
matching portfolio has provided an effective hedge against interest rate risk on an accounting basis. At 31 December 2020, the liability matching 
portfolio was designed to mitigate 83% (2019: 83%) of the Scheme’s exposure to changes in gilt yields.
Inflation risk
A significant proportion of the Scheme’s benefit obligations are linked to inflation and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities. However, 
in most cases, caps on the level of inflationary increases are in place. The majority of the growth assets are either unaffected by or not closely 
correlated with inflation, which means that an increase in inflation will also decrease any Scheme surplus. The liability matching portfolio 
includes instruments such as index-linked gilts to provide protection against inflation risk. At 31 December 2020, the liability matching portfolio 
was designed to mitigate 83% (2019: 83%) of the Scheme’s exposure to inflation risk.
Life Expectancy
The majority of the Scheme’s obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will result in an 
increase in the liability.
(d) Reporting at 31 December
The principal financial assumptions used for the Scheme are:
2020 2019
% %
Discount rate 1.4 2.1
RPI inflation rate 2.8 3.1
CPI inflation rate 2.2 2.2
Future pension increases (for benefits earned before 13 August 2007) 2.7 3.0
Future pension increases (for benefits earned after 13 August 2007) 2.0 2.2
Average number of years a current pensioner is expected to live beyond age 60: Years Years
Men 28 28
Women 29 29
Average number of years future pensioners currently aged 45 are expected to live beyond age 60: Years Years
Men 29 29
Women 30 30
Net interest income is determined by applying the discount rate to the opening net surplus in the Scheme. The Group determines the 
appropriate discount rate at the end of each year. This is the interest rate that is used to determine the present value of estimated future cash 
outflows expected to be required to settle the pension obligations. In determining the appropriate discount rate, the Group considers the 
interest rates of high quality, long dated corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid.
150 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
25. Retirement benefit obligations continued
Estimates and judgements
The Group estimates the carrying value of the Scheme by applying judgement to determine the assumptions as set out on page 150 to 
calculate the valuation of the pension obligation using member data and applying the Scheme rules. The Scheme assets are mainly quoted 
in an active market. The sensitivity to those assumptions is set out below. The most significant judgemental assumption relates to mortality 
rates, which are inherently uncertain. The Group’s mortality assumptions are based on standard mortality tables with Continuous Mortality 
Investigation core projection factors and a long-term rate of mortality improvement of 1.0% (2019: 1.0%) per annum. An additional 
adjustment, an “A parameter” set to 0.25% (2019: 0.5%) per annum, allows for the typically higher rate of mortality improvement among  F
members of the Scheme compared to general population statistics. The latest base mortality tables have been adopted with no scaling  ina
n
(2019: previously latest available base tables scaled back by 2.5% for men and 7.5% for women) following a scheme specific review of the  c
ia
membership data.  l s
ta
The Group reviews its assumptions annually in conjunction with its independent actuaries and considers this adjustment appropriate given  te
m
the geographic and demographic profile of Scheme members. Other assumptions for pension obligations are based in part on current  e
n
market conditions. ts
The financial impact of the Scheme on the Group has been determined by independent qualified actuaries, Aon Hewitt Limited, and is based on 
an assessment of the Scheme as at 31 December 2020.
The amounts recognised in the income statement are:
2020 2019
£m £m
Interest income on Scheme assets (20.7) (27.1)
Interest cost on Scheme liabilities 17.8 22.6
Net interest income recognised in the income statement in respect of the Scheme (2.9) (4.5)
Income statement charge/(credit) in respect of other defined benefit schemes 1.8 (3.2)
Total defined benefit schemes income statement credit (1.1) (7.7)
The amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income are:
2020 2019
£m £m
Gains on Scheme assets in excess of that recognised in interest income (91.5) (54.6)
Actuarial losses/(gains) due to change in demographic assumptions 0.6 (6.4)
Actuarial losses due to change in financial assumptions 74.8 90.4
Actuarial gains due to experience (12.9) (5.6)
Total other comprehensive (gain)/loss in respect of the Scheme (29.0) 23.8
Other comprehensive gain in respect of other defined benefit schemes (1.4) (0.6)
Total other comprehensive (gain)/loss in respect of defined benefit schemes (30.4) 23.2
The sensitivity of the Scheme pension liabilities to changes in assumptions are:
2020 2019
Estimated  Estimated  Estimated  Estimated 
(increase)/ (increase)/ (increase)/ (increase)/
decrease in  decrease in  decrease in  decrease in 
pension  pension  pension  pension 
liabilities liabilities liabilities liabilities
Assumption Assumption change £m % £m %
Discount rate Increase by 0.5% per annum 78.1 8.6 71.7 8.3
Discount rate Decrease by 0.5% per annum (87.7) (9.6) (84.0) (9.7)
Expected rate of pension increases Increase by 0.5% per annum (80.7) (8.9) (65.3) (7.5)
Expected rate of pension increases Decrease by 0.5% per annum 62.3 6.9 67.3 7.8
Life expectancy Increase by one year (45.4) (5.0) (37.9) (4.4)
Life expectancy Decrease by one year 44.6 4.9 37.5 4.3
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 151
Financial statements continued
Notes to the accounts continued
25. Retirement benefit obligations continued
Movements in respect of the assets and liabilities of the Scheme are:
2020 2019
£m £m
At 1 January 1,001.5 951.2
Interest on assets 20.7 27.1
Remeasurement of assets 91.5 54.6
Benefits paid (36.5) (31.4)
Fair value of plan assets 1,077.2 1,001.5
At 1 January (865.2) (795.6)
Interest cost (17.8) (22.6)
Actuarial (losses)/gains due to change in demographic assumptions (0.6) 6.4
Actuarial losses due to change in financial assumptions (74.8) (90.4)
Actuarial gains due to experience 12.9 5.6
Benefits paid 36.5 31.4
Present value of funded obligations (909.0) (865.2)
Net assets 168.2 136.3
The Group has not materially changed the basis of any of the principal financial assumptions underlying the calculation of the Scheme’s 
net financial position during 2020, although such assumptions have been amended where applicable to reflect current market conditions 
and expectations.
Administration expenses and the levy payable to the Pension Protection Fund are met directly by the Group.
The fair values of the Scheme’s plan assets at the year end date are:
2020 2019
Of which not  Of which not 
quoted in an  quoted in an 
Value active market  Value active market
£m £m £m £m
Liability matching investments 762.4 – 643.2 –
Portfolio funds 286.9 38.8 345.6 6.1
Exchange-traded futures and over-the-counter derivatives 3.3 5.6 (7.8) (8.1)
Cash 24.6 – 20.5 –
1,077.2 44.4 1,001.5 (2.0)
152 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
26. Share-based payments
Share-based payments are remuneration payments to selected employees that take the form of an award of shares in Schroders plc. 
Employees are generally not able to exercise such awards in full until three years after the award has been made, although conditions vary 
between different types of award. The accounting for share-based awards settled by transferring shares to the employees (equity-settled) 
differs from the accounting for similar awards settled in cash (cash-settled). The charge for equity-settled share-based payments is 
determined based on the fair value of the award on the grant date. Such awards can include share options or share awards that may or may 
not have performance criteria. The initial fair value of the award takes into account the current value of shares expected to be issued (i.e. 
estimates of the likely levels of forfeiture and achievement of performance criteria), the contribution, if required, by the employee and the 
F
time value of money. This initial fair value is charged to the income statement reflecting benefits received from employment, where relevant,  in
a
in the performance period and over the vesting period. The income statement charge is offset by a credit to the statement of changes in  n
c
equity, where the award is expected to be settled through the issue of shares. Such awards constituted 6.4% (2019: 7.2%) of salaries, wages  ia
l s
and other remuneration (see note 4). ta
te
The Group may make share-based payments to employees through awards over or linked to the value of ordinary shares and by the grant of  m
e
market value share options over ordinary shares. These arrangements involve a maximum term of 10 years. nts
It is the Group’s practice to hedge all awards to eliminate the impact of changes in the market value of shares between the grant date and 
the exercise date.
Awards that lapse or are forfeited during the vesting period result in a credit to the income statement (reversing the previous charge) in the 
year in which they lapse or are forfeited.
The Group recognised total expenses of £57.5 million (2019: £63.7 million) arising from share-based payment transactions during the year, 
of which £56.1 million (2019: £61.6 million) were equity-settled share-based payment transactions. In 2020, there were total exceptional costs 
of £2.0 million included within equity-settled share-based payments (2019: £4.6 million).
The Group has the following share-based payment arrangements (further details of the current schemes may be found in the 
Remuneration report):
(a) 2000 Equity Compensation Plan and 2011 Equity Compensation Plan
Awards over ordinary and non-voting ordinary shares made under the Group’s Equity Compensation Plans are charged at fair value as 
‘Operating expenses’ in the income statement. There are no performance conditions attached to the awards. For the 2000 Equity 
Compensation Plan the fair value of an award is calculated using the market value of the shares at the date of grant, discounted for the 
dividends forgone over the average holding period of the award. For the 2011 Equity Compensation Plan the fair value of an award is 
calculated using the market value of the shares on the date of grant. The fair value charges, adjusted to reflect actual levels of vesting, are 
spread over the performance period and the vesting period of the awards. Awards are structured as nil-cost options.
2020 2019
Number of  Number of  Number of  Number of 
ordinary non-voting  ordinary non-voting 
shares ordinary shares  shares ordinary shares 
Millions Millions Millions Millions
Rights outstanding at 1 January 3.9 0.1 5.5 0.1
Granted 0.8 – 0.9 –
Forfeited (0.1) – (0.1) –
Exercised (1.1) – (2.4) –
Rights outstanding at 31 December 3.5 0.1 3.9 0.1
Vested 1.5 0.1 1.4 0.1
Unvested 2.0 – 2.5 –
Weighted average fair value of shares granted (£) 23.76 – 25.49 –
Weighted average share price at dates of exercise (£) 28.67 18.93 28.76 19.83
The weighted average exercise price per share is nil.
A charge of £10.3 million (2019: £21.6 million) was recognised during the financial year.
The table below shows the expected charges for awards issued under the Equity Compensation Plan to be expensed in future years:
£m
2021 4.4
2022 1.3
2023 0.1
5.8
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 153
Financial statements continued
Notes to the accounts continued
26. Share-based payments continued
(b) Deferred Award Plan
Awards over ordinary shares made under the Group’s Deferred Award Plan are charged at fair value as ‘Operating expenses’ in the income 
statement. Fair value is determined at the date of grant and is equal to the market value of the shares at that time. The fair value charges, 
adjusted to reflect actual levels of vesting, are spread over the performance period and the vesting periods of the awards. Awards are 
structured as nil-cost options.
2020   2019
Number of  Number of
ordinary ordinary
shares shares
Millions Millions
Rights outstanding at 1 January 2.8 1.2
Granted 1.7 1.9
Forfeited (0.1) (0.1)
Exercised (0.6) (0.2)
Rights outstanding at 31 December  3.8 2.8
Vested 0.6 0.1
Unvested 3.2 2.7
Weighted average fair value of shares granted (£) 23.86 26.54
Weighted average share price at date of exercise (£) 27.43 27.35
The weighted average exercise price per share is nil. 
A charge of £39.7 million (2019: £32.5 million) was recognised during the financial year.
The table below shows the expected charges for awards issued under the Deferred Award Plan to be expensed in future years:
£m
2021 10.4
2022 4.1
2023+ 3.2
17.7
(c) Equity Incentive Plan
Awards over ordinary shares made under the Group’s Equity Incentive Plan are charged at fair value as ‘Operating expenses’ to the income 
statement, over a five-year vesting period. Fair value is determined at the date of grant and is equal to the market value of the shares at that 
time. Awards are structured as nil-cost options.
2020   2019
Number of  Number of
ordinary ordinary
shares shares
Millions Millions
Rights outstanding at 1 January 1.4 2.0
Granted 0.2 0.2
Forfeited (0.1) (0.1)
Exercised (0.2) (0.7)
Rights outstanding at 31 December 1.3 1.4
Vested 0.4 0.4
Unvested 0.9 1.0
Weighted average fair value of shares granted (£) 27.82 32.19
Weighted average share price at dates of exercise (£) 30.24 31.08
The weighted average exercise price per share is nil.
A charge of £3.8 million (2019: £5.3 million) was recognised during the financial year.
154 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
26. Share-based payments continued
(c) Equity Incentive Plan continued
The table below shows the expected charges for awards issued under the Equity Incentive Plan to be expensed in future years:
£m
2021 4.4
2022 3.1
2023 2.4
F
2024 1.6 in
a
n
2025 0.8 c
ia
12.3 l sta
te
m
e
(d) Long Term Incentive Plan nts
Awards over ordinary and non-voting ordinary shares made under the Group’s Long Term Incentive Plan are charged at fair value to the 
income statement over a four-year vesting period. Fair value is calculated using the market value of the shares at the grant date, discounted 
for dividends forgone over the vesting period of the award and adjusted based on an estimate at the year end date of the extent to which 
the performance conditions are expected to be met. Awards are structured as nil-cost options.
2020 2019
Number of  Number of  Number of  Number of 
ordinary   non-voting   ordinary   non-voting 
shares   ordinary shares   shares   ordinary shares  
Millions Millions Millions Millions
Rights outstanding at 1 January 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1
Granted – – 0.1 –
Forfeited – – (0.1) –
Exercised – – – –
Rights outstanding at 31 December 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1
Vested – 0.1 – –
Unvested 0.1 – 0.1 0.1
Weighted average fair value of shares granted (£) – – 21.32 –
Weighted average share price at dates of exercise (£) – – – 19.82
The weighted average exercise price per share is nil.
A charge of £0.3 million (2019: £0.4 million) was recognised during the financial year.
The table below shows the expected charges for awards issued under the Long Term Incentive Plan to be expensed in future years:
£m
2021 0.2
2022 0.1
0.3
(e) Share Incentive Plan
The employee monthly share purchase plan is open to UK permanent employees and provides free shares from the Group to match the 
employee purchase of shares up to a maximum of £100 per month. The shares vest after one year.
Pursuant to this plan, the Group purchased 73,339 ordinary shares in 2020 (2019: 68,291) at a weighted average share price of £29.22 
(2019: £28.91). A charge of £2.0 million (2019: £1.8 million) was recognised during the financial year.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 155
Financial statements continued
Notes to the accounts continued
26. Share-based payments continued
(f) Cash-settled share-based awards
Certain employees have been awarded cash-settled equivalents to these share-based awards. The fair value of these awards is determined 
using the same methods and models used to value the equivalent equity-settled awards. The fair value of the liability is remeasured at each 
balance sheet date and at settlement date.
At 31 December 2020, the total carrying value of liabilities arising from cash-settled share-based awards was £4.1 million (2019: £4.1 million).  
The total intrinsic value at 31 December 2020 of liabilities for which the employee’s right to cash or other assets had vested by that date was  
£2.4 million (2019: £2.3 million).
A charge of £1.4 million (2019: £2.1 million) was recognised during the financial year. This charge has arisen as the liability was remeasured at 
the balance sheet date at a share price of £33.37 (31 December 2019: £33.34).
27. Related party transactions
Transactions between the Group and parties related to the Group are required to be disclosed to the extent that they are necessary for an 
understanding of the potential effect of the relationship on the financial statements. Other disclosures, such as key management personnel 
compensation, are also required.
The Group is not deemed to be controlled or jointly controlled by a party directly or through intermediaries under the accounting standards. As a 
result the related parties of the Group are members of the Group, including associates and joint ventures, key management personnel, close 
family members of key management personnel and any entity controlled by those parties.
Cash transactions with associates or joint ventures are reported in the Consolidated cash flow statement and in note 10. 
£40.4 million (2019: £56.5 million) was held in customer accounts in respect of amounts payable to key management personnel or their 
related parties.
Included within loans and advances to clients are amounts due from related parties of £1.6 million (2019: £0.4 million). All related party loans and 
advances were at commercial rates.
Some of the plan assets of the Schroders Retirement Benefit Scheme are invested in products managed by the Life Company (see note 15).  
At 31 December 2020, the fair value of these assets was £136.4 million (2019: £169.8 million).
On 31 January 2020, Peter Harrison disposed of his interest in an associate of the Group, RWC Partners Limited, at the same time and on the 
same terms as the Group disposed of its interest.
Transactions between the Group and its related parties were made at market rates. Any amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled 
in cash. No guarantees have been given or received. 
Key management personnel compensation
Key management personnel are defined as members of the Board or the Group Management Committee. The remuneration of key 
management personnel during the year was as follows:
2020 2019
Type of remuneration Typical composition of this type of benefit £m £m
Short-term employee benefits Salary and upfront bonus 23.3 22.3
Share-based payments Deferred share awards 12.8 13.2
Other long-term benefits Deferred cash awards 12.8 13.1
Termination benefits Termination benefits – 0.3
Post-employment benefits Pension plans 0.1 0.1
49.0 49.0
The remuneration of key management personnel is based on individual performance and market rates. The remuneration policy (which applies 
to Directors and management) is described in more detail at www.schroders.com/directors-remuneration-policy.
156 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
28. Interests in structured entities
Structured entities are those entities that have been designed so that voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding who 
has control, such as when any voting rights relate to administrative tasks only, or when the relevant activities are directed by means of 
contractual arrangements. The Group’s interests in consolidated and unconsolidated structured entities are described below.
The Group has interests in structured entities as a result of contractual arrangements arising from its principal activity, the management of 
assets on behalf of its clients. AUM, excluding deposits by Wealth Management clients and some segregated client portfolios held within the 
Group’s Asset Management business, is managed within structured entities. These structured entities typically consist of investment vehicles 
such as Open Ended Investment Companies, Authorised Unit Trusts, Limited Partnerships and Sociétés d’Investissement à Capital Variable,  F
which entitle investors to a percentage of the vehicle’s net asset value. The vehicles are financed by the purchase of units or shares by  ina
n
investors. The Group also has interests in structured entities through proprietary investments. These are mainly into vehicles that help  c
ia
facilitate the Group’s stated aim of generating a return on investment capital and when it deploys seed and co-investment capital in  l s
developing new investment strategies or as it invests alongside its clients. Additionally, the Group holds interests in structured entities for  tate
liquidity management purposes, for example via investments in money market funds. m
e
n
The Group does not guarantee returns on the investments it manages or commit to financially support its structured entities. A small  ts
proportion of the Group’s AUM, principally real estate funds, is permitted to raise finance through loans from banks and other financial 
institutions. Where external finance is raised, the Group does not provide a guarantee for the repayment of any borrowings.
The business activity of all structured entities in which the Group has an interest, is the management of assets in order to generate 
investment returns for investors from capital appreciation and/or investment income. The Group earns a management fee from its 
structured entities, normally based on a percentage of the entity’s net asset value, committed capital value or gross asset value and, where 
contractually agreed, a performance fee or carried interest, based on outperformance against predetermined benchmarks. In addition, 
where the Group owns a proportion of the structured entity it is entitled to receive investment returns.
(a) Interests arising from managing assets
The Group’s interests in structured entities arising as a result of contractual relationships from its principal activity, the management of assets on 
behalf of its clients, are reflected in the Group’s AUM.
2020
AUM within  AUM within  
AUM outside of   consolidated   unconsolidated  
structured   structured   structured  
entities entities entities Total
£bn £bn £bn £bn
Asset Management 281.2 9.8 211.4 502.4
Wealth Management 65.3 – 6.7 72.0
346.5 9.8 218.1 574.4
2019
AUM within  AUM within  
AUM outside of   consolidated   unconsolidated  
structured   structured   structured  
entities entities entities Total
£bn £bn £bn £bn
Asset Management 222.4 10.4 200.7 433.5
Wealth Management 60.0 – 6.7 66.7
282.4 10.4 207.4 500.2
Certain AUM is managed outside of structured entities. Within Asset Management, this occurs either because it is formed of segregated 
investment portfolios for Institutional clients comprising directly-held investments in individual financial instruments, or because the voting 
structures of the vehicles themselves allow the investment manager to be removed without cause. Within Wealth Management, AUM is not 
considered to be within structured entities as the contractual relationships exists directly with the client rather than with structured entities, for 
example discretionary and advisory asset management and banking services. In addition, Wealth Management AUM in the form of loans and 
advances to customers is conducted outside of structured entities.
Certain structured entities are deemed to be controlled by the Group and are accounted for as subsidiaries and consolidated in accordance with 
the accounting standards. AUM within consolidated structured entities represents the net assets of the beneficial interest in the consolidated 
structured entity owned by third parties.
AUM within unconsolidated structured entities constitutes the remaining balance, represented principally by the net asset value of pooled 
vehicles managed for Intermediary clients, as well as some assets invested in pooled vehicles on behalf of Institutional and Wealth Management 
clients. The Group’s beneficial interest in structured entities is not included within AUM and is described separately overleaf.
The Group has no direct exposure to losses in relation to the AUM reported above, as the investment risk is borne by clients. The main risk the 
Group faces from its interest in AUM managed on behalf of clients is the loss of fee income as a result of the withdrawal of funds by clients. 
Outflows from funds are dependent on market sentiment, asset performance and investor considerations.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 157
Financial statements continued
Notes to the accounts continued
28. Interests in structured entities continued
(a) Interests arising from managing assets continued
Fee income includes £1,290.6 million (2019: £1,346.7 million) of fees from structured entities managed by the Group. The table below shows the 
carrying value of the Group’s interests in structured entities as a result of its management of assets, where income is accrued over the period for 
which assets are managed before being invoiced. The carrying value represents the Group’s maximum exposure to loss from these interests.
2020 2019
£m £m
Fee debtors 20.1 24.5
Accrued income 272.6 239.9
Total exposure due to asset management activities 292.7 264.4
(b) Interest arising from the Group’s investment in unconsolidated structured entities
The table below shows the carrying values of the Group’s proprietary investments in unconsolidated structured entities, which resulted in a net 
gain on financial instruments and other income of £35.5 million (2019: loss of £3.1 million). The carrying values represent the Group’s maximum 
exposure to loss from these interests.
2020 2019
£m £m
Cash and cash equivalents 203.4 141.2
Financial assets 693.9 446.2
Total exposure due to the Group’s investments 897.3 587.4
The Group’s proprietary investments include interests in unconsolidated structured entities in the form of cash and cash equivalents and 
financial assets. Cash and cash equivalents comprise investments in money market funds, none of which are managed by the Group  
(2019: £3.5 million). Financial assets comprise investments in pooled vehicles and legacy private equity investments and include seed and 
co-investment capital and hedges of deferred cash awards. Of the financial assets, £458.6 million (2019: £445.3 million) is invested in funds 
managed by the Group. The Group has no interest apart from its role as investor in those funds for which it does not act as manager. The main 
risk the Group faces from its interests in unconsolidated structured entities arising from proprietary investments is that the investments will 
decrease in value. Note 20 includes further information on the Group’s exposure to market risk arising from proprietary investments.
The Group has contractual commitments to co-invest alongside its clients and provide a minimum level of capital for certain private assets and 
alternative vehicles. The Group’s investment call commitments are set out in note 24.
The Group’s statement of financial position also includes the Life Company assets of £12,086.2 million (2019: £12,425.9 million), which are 
included in AUM. The exposure to the risks and rewards associated with these assets is borne by unit-linked policyholders, or, where Life 
Company funds are consolidated, third-party investors in those funds.
Financial support for consolidated structured entities where there is no contractual obligation to do so
The Group supports some of its funds through the injection of seed capital in order to enable the funds to establish a track record before they 
are more widely marketed. During the year, the Group purchased units at a cost of £120.3 million (2019: £214.0 million) to provide seed capital 
to investment funds managed by the Group, of which £69.1 million (2019: £133.8 million) resulted in the consolidation of those funds and 
£51.2 million (2019: £80.2 million) did not.
158 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
29. Business combinations
The Group applies the acquisition method to account for business combinations. The consideration for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the 
fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred to the former owners of the acquiree and any equity interests issued by the 
Group. The consideration includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from contingent or deferred consideration arrangements. 
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair 
values at the acquisition date. The Group recognises any non-controlling interest at the fair value of the proportionate share of the 
acquiree’s identifiable net assets.
F
in
The Group completed three business combinations during the year. a
n
c
On 31 July 2020, the Group acquired 51% of the issued share capital of Pamfleet Holdings (Hong Kong) Limited (Pamfleet), a real estate asset  ial s
management business, for a total consideration of £16.2 million. The acquisition contributed £0.6 billion of Asset Management AUM and  ta
strengthens the Group’s Private Asset capabilities. tem
e
On 18 December 2020, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Sand Aire Limited (Sandaire), a UK wealth management business,  nts
for a total consideration of £34.7 million. The acquisition contributed £2.4 billion of discretionary Wealth Management AUM and increases the 
Group’s scale and capability for its UK private clients.
The Group completed one further acquisition during the year for £2.4 million. The acquisition contributed £0.3 billion of Wealth Management 
AUM.
Net assets acquired
The fair values of the net assets acquired in the transactions together with the goodwill and intangible assets arising are as follows:
Pamfleet Sandaire Other Total
Net assets acquired: £m £m £m £m
Cash 4.4 2.7 0.4 7.5
Trade and other receivables 0.5 3.5 0.1 4.1
Trade and other payables (2.3) (6.0) (0.2) (8.5)
Tangible net assets 2.6 0.2 0.3 3.1
Goodwill 10.4 21.5 1.4 33.3
Intangible assets arising on acquisition 10.9 16.0 2.2 29.1
Deferred tax arising on acquisition (2.1) (3.0) (0.4) (5.5)
Non-controlling interest (5.6) – (1.1) (6.7)
Total 16.2 34.7 2.4 53.3
Total
Satisfied by: £m £m £m £m
Cash 16.2 33.7 1.5 51.4
Contingent consideration – 1.0 – 1.0
Deferred consideration – – 0.9 0.9
Total 16.2 34.7 2.4 53.3
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 159
Financial statements continued
Notes to the accounts continued
29. Business combinations continued
The goodwill arising on the acquisitions is attributable to the value arising from:
– Additional investment capabilities;
– A broader platform for business growth;
– Talented management and employees; and
– Opportunities for synergies from combining certain activities.
Goodwill will not be deductible for tax purposes.
In the period between the acquisition dates and 31 December 2020, the three acquired businesses contributed £4.5 million to the Group’s net 
income. The contribution to profit before tax and exceptional items was £1.5 million and exceptional costs of £0.8 million were incurred in 
respect of amortisation of the acquired intangible assets. Additionally, acquisition costs of £0.6 million were recorded within ‘Operating 
expenses’ and classified as exceptional in the Consolidated income statement. 
If the acquisitions had been completed on 1 January 2020, the Group’s pre-exceptional net income for the year would have been £2,193.8 million 
and the profit before tax and exceptional items for the year on the same basis would have been £705.3 million.
Estimates and judgements
The fair value of certain items of consideration, assets acquired and liabilities assumed requires some estimation. For intangible assets and 
contingent consideration payable, this estimation required assumptions regarding the level of future management fees that will be earned 
over the relevant period. 
The net impact of changes to these assumptions would be to change the carrying value of individual assets and liabilities with a 
corresponding change to goodwill.
160 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Presentation of the financial statements The Group records any non-controlling interest at the proportionate 
share of the acquiree’s identifiable assets. The most significant 
(a) Basis of preparation
non-controlling interest relates to a third party interest of 19.1% in 
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance 
Schroders Wealth Holdings Limited (SWHL). The profit after tax of 
with international accounting standards in conformity with the 
SWHL was £22.4 million for the year (2019: £7.0 million for the period 
requirements of Companies Act 2006 and IFRS as adopted pursuant 
from 3 October to 31 December 2019). The net assets of SWHL were 
to Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 as it applies to the European Union.
£291.2 million at 31 December 2020 (31 December 2019: £264.3 
The consolidated financial information presented within these  million) and no dividends were paid to SWHL’s non-controlling  
financial statements has been prepared on the going concern basis  interest during the year (2019: same).
ufanird vear ltuhee o hfi sdteorriivcaatli vceo sftin caonncviaeln itniostnr,u emxceenptst  faonrd t hfien amnecaiaslu arsesmetesn at nadt   (d) Net gains and losses on foreign exchange Fina
liabilities that are held at fair value through profit or loss or at fair  Many subsidiaries are denominated in currencies other than sterling.  nc
value through other comprehensive income, liabilities in respect of  The results of these subsidiaries are translated at the average rate of  ial s
dcuesfetorrmeder csa asnhd a bwaanrdkss  (ainncdl ucdeirntagi nth doespeo tshiatst  breoltahte w tioth b buallniokns) .and by  ethxec hcalonsgineg. A rta tthe eo yf eeaxrc heanndg, eth. eG aaisnsse tosr  alonsds elias boinlit tierasn asrlea ttiroann salraet ed at  tatem
recorded in the Group’s statement of comprehensive income and as a  en
The statement of financial position is shown in order of liquidity. The  separate component of equity together with gains or losses on  ts
classification between current and non-current is set out in the notes.  any hedges of overseas operations. Such gains or losses are 
The Group’s Life Company business is reported separately. If the  transferred to the Income statement on disposal or liquidation 
assets and liabilities of the Group’s Life Company business were to be  of the relevant subsidiary.
included within existing captions on the Group’s statement of 
Transactions undertaken in foreign currencies are translated into the 
financial position, the effect would be to gross up a number of 
functional currency of the subsidiary at the exchange rate prevailing 
individual line items to a material extent. By not doing this, the Group 
on the date of the transaction. Foreign currency assets and liabilities, 
can provide a more transparent presentation that shows the assets of 
other than those measured at historical cost, are translated into the 
the Life Company and the related unit-linked liabilities as separate 
functional currency at the rates of exchange ruling at the year end 
and distinct from the remainder of the Group’s statement of financial 
date. Any exchange differences arising are included within ‘Net gain 
position.
on financial instruments and other income’ in the Group’s income 
The Group’s principal accounting policies have been consistently  statement.
applied. Further information is provided below and highlighted in the 
notes to the accounts. (d) Estimates and judgements
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with IFRS 
(b) Future accounting developments
requires the use of certain significant accounting estimates. It also 
The Group did not implement the requirements of any other  requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of 
Standards or Interpretations that were in issue but were not required  applying the Group’s accounting policies and in determining whether 
to be adopted by the Group at the year end date. No other Standards  certain assets and liabilities should be recorded or an impairment 
or Interpretations have been issued that are expected to have a  recognised. Any areas involving a higher degree of judgement or 
material impact on the Group’s financial statements. complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant 
to the financial statements, are disclosed within the notes and 
(c) Basis of consolidation
identified under the title estimates and judgements. Estimates and 
The consolidated financial information includes the total  judgements used in preparing the financial statements are 
comprehensive gains or losses, the financial position and the cash  periodically evaluated and are based on historical experience and 
flows of the Company and its subsidiaries, associates and joint  other factors, including expectations of future events that are 
ventures. This includes share ownership trusts established for certain  believed to be reasonable. The resulting accounting estimates may 
share-based awards. In the case of associates and joint ventures,  not equal the related actual results.
those entities are presented as single line items in the Income 
statement and Statement of financial position (see note 10). 
Intercompany transactions and balances are eliminated on 
consolidation. Consistent accounting policies have been applied 
across the Group in the preparation of the consolidated financial 
statements. Details of the Company’s related undertakings are 
presented in note 38. 
The entities included in the consolidation may vary year on year due 
to both the restructuring of the Group (including acquisitions and 
disposals) and changes to the number of pooled investment vehicles 
controlled by the Group.
Where the Group controls a pooled investment vehicle, it is 
consolidated and the third party interest is recorded as a financial 
liability until the Group loses control. This consolidation has no net 
effect on the Group’s Consolidated income statement. The cash flow 
statement separately presents acquisitions and disposals of interests 
in consolidated pooled vehicles. Cash movements within the pooled 
vehicles are shown net within cash flows from operating activities as 
the cash held within the underlying pooled investment vehicles is 
restricted and is not available to the Group for corporate purposes. 
This presentation provides more relevant information about the 
impact of the Group’s investment in pooled vehicles on corporate 
cash resources than an analysis of the underlying cash flows of the 
vehicles.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 161
Financial statements continued
Notes to the accounts continued
Presentation of the financial statements continued
The estimates and judgements that could have a significant effect 
on the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities are set out in the 
following notes, including sensitivities where relevant or material:
Note 2 Net operating revenue
Note 5 Tax expense 
Note 8 Trade and other receivables
Note 9 Financial assets 
Note 13 Goodwill and intangible assets 
Note 17 Financial liabilities
Note 18 Provisions and contingent liabilities 
Note 25 Retirement benefit obligations 
Note 29 Business combinations
In applying IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, the Group 
uses judgement to determine whether its interests in funds (and 
other entities), including those held by the Life Company, constitute 
controlling interests. The Group has interests in funds through its role 
as fund manager and through its proprietary investments in pooled 
investment vehicles. The Group considers all relevant facts and 
circumstances in assessing whether it has power over these vehicles. 
This includes consideration of the purpose and design of an investee, 
the extent of the Group’s exposure to variability of returns as an 
investor and, where appropriate, as a fund manager, and the Group’s 
ability to direct the relevant activities, including whether it has 
substantive or protective rights through voting rights and potential 
voting rights. These considerations are reassessed if there are 
indications that circumstances have changed since the original 
assessment.
162 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Schroders plc – Statement of financial position
at 31 December 2020
2020 2019
Notes £m £m
Assets
Trade and other receivables 32 1,536.1 1,504.7
Retirement benefit scheme surplus 25 168.2 136.3
Investments in subsidiaries 38 3,092.6 3,092.6
Total assets 4,796.9 4,733.6
F
Liabilities in
a
n
Trade and other payables 33 25.2 29.4 c
ia
Deferred tax 34 28.8 20.0 l sta
Total liabilities 54.0 49.4 tem
e
n
ts
Net assets 4,742.9 4,684.2
Equity at 1 January 4,684.2 4,632.6
Profit for the year 346.4 401.4
Dividends (311.7) (312.3)
Other changes in equity 24.0 (37.5)
Equity at 31 December 4,742.9 4,684.2
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 3 March 2021 and signed on its behalf by:
Richard Keers
Director
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 163
Financial statements continued
Schroders plc – Statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2020
Profit and  
Share   Share   Own   loss  
capital  premium  shares  reserve  Total 
Notes £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2020 282.5 124.2 (151.9) 4,429.4 4,684.2
Profit for the year – – – 346.4 346.4
Items that will not be reclassified to the income statement:
Net actuarial gain on defined benefit pension scheme 25 – – – 29.0 29.0
Tax on items taken directly to other comprehensive income – – – (4.9) (4.9)
Other comprehensive income – – – 24.1 24.1
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 370.5 370.5
Own shares purchased 36 – – (50.9) – (50.9)
Share-based payments – – – 50.5 50.5
Tax in respect of share schemes – – – 0.3 0.3
Dividends 7 – – – (311.7) (311.7)
Transactions with shareholders – – (50.9) (260.9) (311.8)
Transfers – – 58.7 (58.7) –
At 31 December 2020 282.5 124.2 (144.1) 4,480.3 4,742.9
Profit and  
Share   Share   Own   loss  
capital  premium  shares  reserve  Total 
Notes £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2019 282.5 124.2 (146.1) 4,372.0 4,632.6
Profit for the year – – – 401.4 401.4
Items that will not be reclassified to the income statement:
Net actuarial loss on defined benefit pension scheme 25 – – – (23.8) (23.8)
Tax on items taken directly to other comprehensive income – – – 4.0 4.0
Other comprehensive income – – – (19.8) (19.8)
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 381.6 381.6
Own shares purchased 36 – – (71.9) – (71.9)
Share-based payments – – – 53.2 53.2
Tax in respect of share schemes – – – 1.0 1.0
Dividends 7 – – – (312.3) (312.3)
Transactions with shareholders – – (71.9) (258.1) (330.0)
Transfers – – 66.1 (66.1) –
At 31 December 2019 282.5 124.2 (151.9) 4,429.4 4,684.2
The distributable profits of Schroders plc are £2.9 billion (2019: £2.9 billion) and comprise retained profits of £3.0 billion (2019: £3.0 billion), 
included within the ‘Profit and loss reserve’, less amounts held within the own shares reserve.
The Group’s ability to pay dividends is however restricted by the need to hold regulatory capital and to maintain sufficient other operating capital 
to support its ongoing business activities. In addition, the Group invests in its own funds as seed capital for the purposes of supporting new 
investment strategies. An analysis of the Group’s capital position is provided in note 20.
164 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Schroders plc – Cash flow statement
for the year ended 31 December 2020
2020 2019
£m £m
Profit before tax 344.1 397.1
Adjustments for:
Increase in trade and other receivables (33.9) (68.6)
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables (3.0) 1.0
Net credit taken in respect of the scheme (2.9) (4.5)
F
Share-based payments 50.5 53.2 in
a
n
Amounts received in respect of Group tax relief 9.0 8.0 cia
Net cash from operating activities 363.8 386.2 l sta
te
m
e
Cash flows from financing activities: nts
Repayment of loan received from a Group company (1.2) (2.0)
Acquisition of own shares (50.9) (71.9)
Dividends paid (311.7) (312.3)
Net cash used in financing activities (363.8) (386.2)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents – –
Opening cash and cash equivalents – –
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents – –
Closing cash and cash equivalents – –
30. Significant accounting policies
The separate financial statements of Schroders plc (Company) have been prepared on a going concern basis in accordance with 
international accounting standards in conformity with the requirements of Companies Act 2006 (Act) applicable to companies reporting 
under IFRS. The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in section 408 of the Act not to present its own income statement and 
statement of comprehensive income.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis. The principal accounting policies adopted are the same as those 
set out in the Group’s financial statement note disclosures, where applicable. In addition, note 38 sets out the accounting policy in respect of 
investments in subsidiary undertakings.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 165
Financial statements continued
Schroders plc – Cash flow statement continued
31. Expenses and other disclosures
The auditor’s remuneration for audit services to the Company was £0.6 million (2019: £0.6 million). There were no fees relating to further 
assurance services in the year (2019: nil).
Key management personnel compensation
The remuneration policy is described in more detail at www.schroders.com/directors-remuneration-policy. The Company has no employees. The 
key management personnel of the Company are defined as the Board of Directors. The remuneration of key management personnel during the 
year was as follows:
2020 2019
Type of remuneration Typical composition of this type of benefit £m £m
Short-term employee benefits Salary and upfront bonus 6.3 6.4
Share-based payments Deferred share awards 3.6 4.1
Other long-term benefits Deferred cash awards 3.0 3.8
12.9 14.3
32. Trade and other receivables
2020 2019
£m £m
Amounts due from subsidiaries 1,525.0 1,496.3
Prepayments and accrued income 0.2 –
Other receivables 10.9 8.4
1,536.1 1,504.7
Trade and other receivables are initially recorded at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost. All trade and other receivables are due within 
one year or repayable on demand.
Expected credit losses on trade and other receivables at 31 December 2020 were £1.2 million (2019: £1.2 million). Note 20 sets out the details of 
the expected credit loss calculation.
33. Trade and other payables
2020 2019
Non-current  Current  Total  Non-current  Current  Total 
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Trade and other payables held at amortised cost:
Social security 1.6 1.1 2.7 1.5 1.5 3.0
Accruals 3.5 6.8 10.3 3.9 7.8 11.7
Amounts owed to subsidiaries – 12.2 12.2 – 14.7 14.7
5.1 20.1 25.2 5.4 24.0 29.4
The Company’s trade and other payables mature in the following time periods:
2020 2019
£m £m
Less than one year 20.1 24.0
1 – 2 years 2.0 2.3
2 – 5 years 3.1 3.1
5.1 5.4
25.2 29.4
Amounts owed to subsidiaries include an interest-bearing loan of £3.8 million (2019: £5.0 million) that is repayable on demand.
166 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Schroders plc – Notes to the accounts
34. Deferred tax
2020 2019
Deferred  Deferred 
employee  Pension  employee  Pension 
awards surplus Total awards surplus Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January (3.1) 23.1 20.0 (5.5) 26.4 20.9
Income statement charge 0.4 0.5 0.9 2.3 0.8 3.1
Income statement charge/(credit) due to changes in tax rates (0.3) 3.3 3.0 0.1 (0.1) –
F
Charge/(credit) to statement of other comprehensive income – 5.5 5.5 – (4.5) (4.5) in
a
(Credit)/charge to statement of other comprehensive income due to changes in  nc
ia
tax rates – (0.6) (0.6) – 0.5 0.5 l s
ta
At 31 December (3.0) 31.8 28.8 (3.1) 23.1 20.0 te
m
e
n
ts
35. Financial instrument risk management
The Company’s policy is to have adequate capital for all activities undertaken in the normal course of business. In particular, it should have 
adequate capital to maintain sufficient liquid funds to meet peak working capital requirements. Generally, surplus capital is loaned back to 
the Group’s investment capital management entities.
The risk management processes of the Company are aligned with those of the Group as a whole. Details of the Group’s risk management 
processes are outlined in the ‘Key risks and mitigations’ section within the Strategic report and the ‘Risk and internal controls’ section within 
the Audit and Risk Committee report as well as in note 20. The Company’s specific risk exposures are explained below.
Credit risk
The Company has exposure to credit risk from its normal activities where the risk is that a counterparty will be unable to pay in full amounts 
when due. The Company’s counterparties are predominantly its subsidiaries and therefore there is minimal external credit risk exposure.
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company cannot meet its obligations as they fall due or can only do so at a cost. The Group’s liquidity policy is 
to maintain sufficient liquidity to cover any cash flow funding, meet all obligations as they fall due and maintain solvency. The Company holds 
sufficient liquid funds to cover its needs in the normal course of business. The Company can recall intercompany loans to subsidiaries or utilise 
the Group loan facility to maintain sufficient liquidity.
Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in market interest 
rates.
At 31 December 2020, if interest rates had been 15 bps higher (2019: 75 bps higher) or 35 bps lower (2019: 50 bps lower) with all other variables 
held constant, the Company estimates that post-tax profit for the year would have increased by £1.8 million (2019: increased by £8.7 million) 
or decreased by £4.2 million (2019: decreased by £5.8 million) respectively. These changes are mainly as a result of net interest income on the 
Company’s interest-bearing intercompany receivables and payables and cash. Other components of equity are not directly affected by interest 
rate movements.
The model used to calculate the effect on post-tax profits does not take into account the indirect effect of interest rates on the fair value of other 
assets and liabilities.
Foreign exchange and pricing risk
Foreign exchange risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in foreign 
exchange rates. Pricing risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in market 
prices. The Company is not directly exposed to foreign exchange or pricing risk. The Company’s investments in its directly-held subsidiaries are 
in sterling and are held at historic cost. It has indirect exposure to foreign exchange and pricing risk in the Group, which could result in the 
impairment of these subsidiaries. There are currently sufficient resources in subsidiaries to absorb any normal market events.
36. Own shares
Movements in own shares during the year were as follows:
2020 2019
£m £m
At 1 January (151.9) (146.1)
Own shares purchased (50.9) (71.9)
Awards vested 58.7 66.1
At 31 December (144.1) (151.9)
During the year 2.1 million own shares (2019: 2.5 million own shares) were purchased and held for hedging share-based awards. 2.2 million 
shares (2019: 2.5 million shares) awarded to employees vested in the period and were transferred out of own shares.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 167
Financial statements continued
Schroders plc – Notes to the accounts continued
36. Own shares continued
The total number of shares in the Company held within the Company’s employee benefit trusts comprise:
2020 2019
Number of  Number of  Number of  Number of 
vested  unvested  vested  unvested 
shares  shares  Total shares shares  Total
Millions Millions Millions Millions Millions Millions
Ordinary shares 2.4 5.5 7.9 2.0 5.5 7.5
Non-voting ordinary shares 0.1 – 0.1 – 0.1 0.1
2.5 5.5 8.0 2.0 5.6 7.6
2020 2019
Vested  Unvested  Vested  Unvested 
shares shares Total shares shares Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Ordinary shares:
Cost 58.3 143.8 202.1 44.2 151.2 195.4
Fair value 82.7 182.6 265.3 66.4 184.6 251.0
Non-voting ordinary shares:
Cost 0.3 0.3 0.6 0.2 0.7 0.9
Fair value 0.6 0.3 0.9 0.7 1.0 1.7
Total:
Cost 58.6 144.1 202.7 44.4 151.9 196.3
Fair value 83.3 182.9 266.2 67.1 185.6 252.7
37. Related party transactions
The Company is not deemed to be controlled or jointly controlled by a party directly or through intermediaries under IFRS. As a result, the 
related parties of the Company comprise principally subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, key management personnel, close family 
members of key management personnel and any entity controlled by those parties.
The Company has determined that key management personnel comprises only the Board of Directors.
Transactions between related parties
Details of transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties of the Company, and transactions between the 
Company and other related parties, excluding compensation (which is set out in note 31), are disclosed below:
2020
Amounts owed Amounts owed 
Interest  Interest  by related  to related 
Revenue Expenses receivable payable parties parties
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Subsidiaries of the Company 370.9 18.9 4.1 0.1 1,525.0 (12.2)
Key management personnel 0.3 – – – 1.0 (30.7)
2019
Amounts owed  Amounts owed 
Interest  Interest  by related  to related 
Revenue Expenses receivable payable parties parties
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Subsidiaries of the Company 418.0 18.5 8.5 0.1 1,496.3 (14.7)
Key management personnel 0.3 – – (0.1) – (46.3)
Transactions with related parties were made at market rates. The amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled in cash. 
168 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
38. Subsidiaries and other related undertakings
The Group operates globally, which results in the Company having a corporate structure consisting of a number of related undertakings, 
comprising subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and other qualifying undertakings. A full list of these undertakings, the country of 
incorporation, registered office, classes of shares held and the effective percentage of equity owned at 31 December 2020 is disclosed below.
Additionally, related undertakings include entities where the Company has a significant holding of a share class or unit class of a pooled 
vehicle. These holdings can arise through the Group’s investment management activities on behalf of clients or as part of the stated aim of 
generating a return on investment capital. The seeding of structured entities in order to develop new investment strategies can give rise to 
these holdings. A listing of related undertakings arising from the Company’s interest in structured entities along with registered offices is  F
included on pages 177 to 179. ina
n
c
ia
l s
(a) Related undertakings arising from the Company’s corporate structure tate
m
Principal subsidiaries e
n
The principal subsidiaries listed below are those that, in the opinion of the Directors, principally affect the consolidated profits or net assets of  ts
the Company, or are regulated. The principal subsidiary entities are wholly-owned subsidiary undertakings of the Company, unless otherwise 
stated. All undertakings operate in the countries where they are registered or incorporated and are stated at cost less, where appropriate, 
provision for impairment.
Name Share class Footnote % Address 
UK
Aspect8 Limited OS a 86.8% Holmwood House, Langhurstwood Road, Horsham, RH12 4QP, 
Best Practice IFA Group Limited OS a 86.8% England
Bright Square Pensions Limited OS a 86.8%
Evolution Wealth Network Limited OS a 86.8%
Fusion Funds Limited OS a 86.8%
Fusion Wealth Limited OS a  86.8%
Mitchell & Company (IFA) Limited OS a 86.8%
Leadenhall Securities Corporation Limited OS 100% 1 London Wall Place, London, EC2Y 5AU, England
Sand Aire Limited  OS j 80.9%
Schroder & Co. Limited OS j 80.9%
Schroder Administration Limited OS b 100%
Schroder Corporate Services Limited OS 100%
Schroder Financial Services Limited OS 100%
Schroder Investment Company Limited OS  100%
Schroder Investment Management Limited OS 100%
Schroder Investment Management North America Limited OS  100%
Schroder Pension Management Limited OS 100%
Schroder Real Estate Investment Management Limited OS 100%
Schroder Unit Trusts Limited OS 100%
Schroder Wealth Management (US) Limited OS j 80.9%
Argentina 
Schroder Investment Management S.A. OS 95% Ing.Enrique Butty 220, Piso 12, Buenos Aires, C1001AFB, Argentina
Schroder S.A. Sociedad Gerente de   OS 95%
Fondos Comunes de Inversion
Australia 
Schroder Investment Management Australia Limited OS, CPS 100% Level 20, Angel Place, 123 Pitt Street, Sydney, NSW 2000, Australia
Bermuda
Schroders (Bermuda) Limited OS 100% Wellesley House, 2nd Floor, 90 Pitts Bay Road, Pembroke HM 08, 
Bermuda
Brazil 
Schroder Investment Management Brasil Ltda OS 100% 100 Joaquim Floriano, 14th Floor, Suite 142, Itaim Bibi, São Paulo, São 
Paulo, 04534000, Brazil
Cayman Islands 
Pamfleet China Investment Management Limited OS c 51% PO Box 309, Maples Corporate Services Limited, Ugland House, 
Pamfleet China Investment Management II Limited OS c 35.7% Grand Cayman, KY1-1104, Cayman Islands
Pamfleet International Limited OS c 51%
China
Schroder Adveq Equity Investment Fund Management  OS 100% Unit 33T52B, 33F, Shanghai World Financial Centre, 100 Century 
(Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Avenue, FTZ, Shanghai, China
Schroder Investment Management (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. OS 100%
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 169
Financial statements continued
Schroders plc – Notes to the accounts continued
38. Subsidiaries and other related undertakings continued
(a) Related undertakings arising from the Company’s corporate structure continued
Principal subsidiaries continued
Name Share class Footnote % Address
France
Schroder AIDA SAS  OS 70% 1 rue Euler, 75008, Paris, France
Schroder Real Estate (France) OS 100%
Germany
Schroder Real Estate Kapitalverwaltungsgesellschaft GmbH OS 100% Taunustor 1, 60310, Frankfurt, Germany
Guernsey
Burnaby Insurance (Guernsey) Limited  OS 100% Heritage Hall, Le Marchant Street, St Peter Port, Guernsey, GY1 4JH, 
Channel Islands
Schroders (C.I.) Limited  OS 100% PO Box 334, Regency Court, Glategny Esplanade, St Peter Port, 
Schroder Investment Company (Guernsey) Limited  OS 100% Guernsey, GY1 3UF, Channel Islands
Schroder Investment Management (Guernsey) Limited OS 100%
Schroder Venture Managers (Guernsey) Limited  OS, NCRPS 100% PO Box 255, Trafalgar Court, Les Banques, St Peter Port, Guernsey, 
GY1 3QL, Channel Islands
Secquaero Re (Guernsey) ICC Ltd OS 100% PO Box 33, Dorey Court, Admiral Park, St Peter Port, Guernsey, 
GY1 4AT, Channel Islands
Hong Kong
Schroder & Co. (Hong Kong) Limited OS 100% Level 54, Hopewell Centre, 183 Queen’s Road East, Hong Kong, 
Hong Kong 
Schroder Adveq Management (Hong Kong) Limited (In  OS 100% 30th Floor, One Taikoo Place, 979 King’s Road, Hong Kong, 
Liquidation) Hong Kong 
Schroder Investment Management (Hong Kong) Limited  OS 100% Level 33, Two Pacific Place, 88 Queensway, Hong Kong, Hong Kong
Indonesia
PT Schroder Investment Management Indonesia  OS 99% 30th Floor, Indonesia Stock Exchange Building, Tower 1, Jl Jendral 
Sudirman Kav 52-53, Jakarta, 12190, Indonesia
Ireland
Schroder Investment Management (Ireland) Limited  OS 100% George’s Court, 54-62 Townsend Street, Dublin 2, Ireland
Japan
Schroder Investment Management (Japan) Limited  OS 100% 8-3, Marunouchi 1-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, 100-0005, Japan
Jersey
Schroder Real Estate Managers (Jersey) Limited OS 100% 47 Esplanade, St Helier, JE1 0BD, Jersey, Channel Islands
Luxembourg
BlueOrchard Asset Management (Luxembourg) S.A. OS d, e 81.5% 1 rue Goethe, L-1637, Luxembourg City, Luxembourg
Schroder Investment Management (Europe) S.A. OS 100% 5 rue Höhenhof, L-1736 Senningerberg, Luxembourg
Schroder Real Estate Investment Management (Luxembourg)  OS 100%
S.à.r.l.
Schroder Real Estate SICAV-SIF OS 100%
Mexico
Consultora Schroders, S.A. de C.V. OS  f, g 99% Montes Urales 760 Desp. 101, Col. Lomas de Chapultepec, Mexico, 
DF, 11000, Mexico
Singapore
Schroder & Co. (Asia) Limited  OS 100% 138 Market Street, #23-02, CapitaGreen, Singapore, 048946, 
Schroder Investment Management (Singapore) Ltd.  OS 100% Singapore
South Korea
Schroders Korea Limited OS 100% 15th Fl., Centropolis A, 26, Ujeongguk-ro, Jongno-gu, Seoul, Republic 
of Korea 
Switzerland
BlueOrchard Finance AG OS 81.5% Seefeldstrasse 233, 8008, Zurich, Switzerland
Schroder Adveq Management AG  OS 100% Affolternstrasse 56, 8050, Zurich, Switzerland
Schroder & Co Bank AG OS 100% Central 2, 8021, Zurich, Switzerland
Schroder Investment Management (Switzerland) AG OS 100% Central 2, 8001, Zurich, Switzerland
Taiwan
Schroder Investment Management (Taiwan) Limited  OS 100% 9/F, 108 Sec.5, Hsin-Yi Road, Hsin-Yi District, Taipei 11047, Taiwan
United States
Schroder Adveq Management US Inc. OS 100% Corporate Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware, 
19801, USA
Schroder Canada Inc. OS 100% 7 Bryant Park, New York, New York, 10018, USA
Schroder Fund Advisors LLC  COS 100%
Schroder Investment Management North America Inc.   COS 100%
Schroder US Holdings Inc.  COS 100% National Registered Agents, Inc., 160 Greentree Drive, Suite 101, 
Dover, Delaware, 19904, USA
170 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
38. Subsidiaries and other related undertakings continued
(a) Related undertakings arising from the Company’s corporate structure continued
Fully-owned subsidiaries
Name Share class Footnote % Address 
UK
Adveq Founder Partner (GP) Limited  OS 100% 50 Lothian Road, Festival Square, Edinburgh, EH3 9WJ, Scotland 
Adveq Founder Partner Limited  OS 100%
Adveq GP LLP  PI 100%
F
Algonquin Management Partners (UK) Ltd OS 100% 5 Elstree Gate, Elstree Way, Borehamwood, Hertfordshire, WD6 1JD,  in
England  an
c
Croydon Gateway Nominee 1 Limited  OS 100% 1 London Wall Place, London, EC2Y 5AU, England ia
l s
Croydon Gateway Nominee 2 Limited  OS 100% ta
te
Gatwick Hotel Feeder GP LLP PI 100% m
e
J. Henry Schroder Wagg & Co. Limited  OS 100% n
ts
Ruskin Square Management Company Limited OS 100%
Schroder Financial Holdings Limited  OS 100%
Schroder Infra Debt GP LLP  PI 100%
Schroder International Holdings Limited OS 100%
Schroder Nominees Limited OS h 100%
Schroder Pension Trustee Limited  OS 100%
Schroder Private Assets Holdings Limited  OS 100%
Schroder Wealth International Holdings Limited OS 100%
UK PEM Partners Limited  OS 100%
Cazenove Capital Management Limited (In Liquidation) OS 100% CVR Global LLP, Town Wall House, Balkerne Hill, Colchester, Essex, 
Schroder Adveq Management (UK) Limited (In Liquidation)  OS 100% CO3 3AD, England
Australia
Schroder Australia Holdings Pty Limited  OS 100% Level 20, Angel Place, 123 Pitt Street, Sydney, NSW 2000, Australia
Austria
Schroder Real Estate Asset Management Österreich GmbH OS 100% Zwerchäckerweg 2-10, 1220 Vienna, Austria 
Belgium 
Algonquin Management Partners S.A. OS 100% Avenue Louise, 523 – 1050, Bruxelles, Belgium
Bermuda
Schroder General Partner (Bermuda) Limited OS 100% Wellesley House, 2nd Floor, 90 Pitts Bay Road, Pembroke HM 08, 
Schroder Management Company (Bermuda) Limited  OS 100% Bermuda
Schroder Venture Managers Limited  COS 100%
SITCO Nominees Limited  OS 100%
Canada
Schroder Canada Investments Inc. COS 100% Cidel Financial Group, 60 Bloor Street West, 9th Floor, Toronto, 
Ontario, M4W 3B8, Canada
Cayman Islands
AEROW SMA Management I L.P. PI 100% Maples & Calder, PO Box 309 GT, Ugland House, South Church 
AEROW SMA Management II L.P. PI 100% Street, George Town, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands
PEM Partners Ltd OS 100%
Schroder Adveq cPl Global Management III L.P. PI 100%
Chile
Schroders Chile SpA  OS 100% Avenida Cerro El Plomo 5420 Oficina 1104, Les Condes, Santiago, 
Chile
China 
Schroder Adveq Investment Management (Beijing) Co., Ltd. OS 100% Room 1929-1932, Winland International Finance Centre, 7 Finance 
Street, Xicheng District, Beijing, China
Curaçao
cPI Schroder Adveq Investments Management B.V  OS 100% Johan van, Walbeeckplein 11, Willemstad, Curaçao
Schroder Adveq Investors B.V.  OS 100%
Schroder Adveq Management N.V  OS 100%
France
Holdco LC Paris Blomet SAS OS 100% 1 rue Euler, 75008, Paris, France
Schroder Adveq France UP SAS OS 100% 37 avenue Pierre 1er de Serbie, 75008 Paris, France
Germany 
Blitz 06-953 GmbH OS 100% Taunustor 1, 60310, Frankfurt, Germany
Real Neunzehnte Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH OS 100%
Schroder Adveq Management Deutschland GmbH  OS 100%
Schroder Eurologistik Fonds Verwaltungs GmbH OS 100%
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 171
Financial statements continued
Schroders plc – Notes to the accounts continued
38. Subsidiaries and other related undertakings continued
(a) Related undertakings arising from the Company’s corporate structure continued
Fully-owned subsidiaries continued
Name Share class Footnote % Address 
Germany (continued)
Schroder Holdings (Deutschland) GmbH  CS 100% Taunustor 1, 60310, Frankfurt, Germany
Schroder Italien Fonds Verwaltungs GmbH  OS  100%
Schroder Real Estate Investment Management GmbH OS 100%
SIMA 5 Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH OS 100%
SPrIM Holdings GmbH OS 100%
Schroder Real Estate Asset Management Austria GmbH OS 100% Maximilianstrasse 31, 80539 München, Germany
Schroder Real Estate Asset Management GmbH OS 100%
Guernsey
CC Private Debt Feeder Company Limited OS 100% Trafalgar Court, Les Banques, St. Peter Port, Guernsey,
CC Private Equity Feeder Company PCC Limited OS 100% GY1 3QL, Channel Islands
Schroder Investments (Guernsey) Limited  OS 100% PO Box 334, Regency Court, Glategny Esplanade, St Peter Port, 
Schroder Nominees (Guernsey) Limited  OS 100% Guernsey, GY1 3UF, Channel Islands
SQ Revita I Limited OS 100%
Hong Kong
Schroders Asia Nominees Limited OS 100% Level 33, Two Pacific Place, 88 Queensway, Hong Kong, Hong Kong
S & C Nominees Limited OS 100%
India 
Schroders India Private Limited (In Liquidation) OS 100% 1209, Navjivan Society, Bldg. No. 3, Lamington Road, Mumbai 
Central, Mumbai, Maharashtra-MH, 400008, India
Jersey
AAF Management II L.P. PI 100% 26 New Street, St Helier, Jersey, JE2 3RA, Channel Islands
AAF Management III L.P. PI 100%
BKMS Management L.P. PI 100%
BKMS Management II L.P. PI 100%
Confluentes Partners I L.P. PI 100%
Cresta Management L.P. PI 100%
Cresta Management II L.P. PI 100%
EEM Management II L.P. PI 100%
EEM Opportunities Management L.P. PI 100%
Gemini Management L.P. PI 100%
GPEP Management I L.P. PI 100%
GPEP Management IV L.P. PI 100%
ICD Management L.P. PI 100%
IST3 Manesse PE Management L.P. PI 100%
IST3 Manesse PE2 Management L.P. PI 100%
Milele Partners L.P. PI 100%
PSY Private Equity Partners L.P. PI 100%
SA Co-Investment Management 1 L.P. PI 100%
SA-EL Asia Partners I L.P. PI 100%
SA-EL Partners II L.P. PI 100%
SA RP CO Management 1 L.P. PI 100%
SA TG Management L.P.  PI 100%
SA VS Management L.P.  PI 100%
Salève 2017 Management L.P. PI 100%
Salève 2020 Management L.P. PI 100%
Schroder Adveq Asia Partners V L.P. PI 100%
Schroder Adveq cPl Global Management S.à.r.l. OS 100%
Schroder Adveq cPl Global Partners IV L.P. PI 100%
Schroder Adveq Direct Partners III L.P. PI 100%
Schroder Adveq EEM Management I L.P. PI 100%
Schroder Adveq Europe Direct Partners II L.P. PI 100%
Schroder Adveq Europe Partners VII L.P. PI 100%
Schroder Adveq Europe Partners VIII L.P.  PI 100%
Schroder Adveq Global Partners II L.P. PI 100%
Schroder Adveq Global Partners III L.P. PI 100%
Schroder Adveq Healthcare Partners I L.P. PI 100%
172 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
38. Subsidiaries and other related undertakings continued
(a) Related undertakings arising from the Company’s corporate structure continued
Fully-owned subsidiaries continued
Name Share class Footnote % Address
Jersey (continued)
Schroder Adveq Mature Secondaries (Orthros)  PI 100% 26 New Street, St Helier, Jersey, JE2 3RA, Channel Islands
Management L.P.
Schroder Adveq Mature Secondaries (Orthros)  PI 100%
Management II L.P. F
in
Schroder Adveq Mature Secondaries (Orthros)  PI 100% a
n
Management III L.P. c
ia
Schroder Adveq Mature Secondaries (Orthros)  PI 100% l s
Management IV L.P. tate
Schroder Adveq Multi Private Credit Management L.P. PI 100% m
e
Schroder Adveq Santé Direct Partners L.P. PI 100% nts
Schroder Adveq Secondaries Management III L.P. PI 100%
Schroder Adveq Secondaries Partners IV L.P. PI 100%
Schroder Adveq Shanghai Private Equity Investment  PI 100%
Management L.P.
Schroder Adveq Technology Partners IX L.P. PI 100%
Schroder Adveq Technology Partners X L.P. PI 100%
Schroder Adveq US Partners V L.P. PI 100%
SC-SA Co-Invest Opportunities 2018 Management L.P. PI 100%
TMC Management III L.P. PI 100%
TMC Management IV L.P. PI 100%
TMCO Management I L.P. PI 100%
Wilmersdorf Secondary Management II L.P. PI 100%
Cazenove Capital Holdings Limited (In Liquidation) OS 100% 44 Esplanade, St Helier, Jersey, JE4 9WG, Channel Islands
Schroder Adveq Management Jersey Ltd OS 100% 40 Esplanade, St Helier, Jersey, JE2 9WB, Channel Islands
Croydon Gateway GP Limited OS 100% 47 Esplanade, St Helier, Jersey, JE1 0BD, Channel Islands
Croydon Gateway Investments Limited OS 100%
Income Plus Real Estate Debt GP Limited OS 100%
UK Retirement Living Fund (ReLF) GP Limited OS 100%
Luxembourg
Schroder Euro Enhanced Infra Debt Fund II GP S.à.r.l. OS 100% 5 rue Höhenhof, L-1736 Senningerberg, Luxembourg
Schroder Euro IG Infra Debt Fund V GP S.à.r.l. OS 100%
Schroder European Operating Hotel GP S.à.r.l. OS 100%
Schroder IFL S.à.r.l. OS 100%
Schroder Real Estate (CIP) GP S.à.r.l. OS 100%
SNI Management S.à.r.l. OS 100%
Confluentes Management S.à r.l. OS 100% 6C rue Gabriel Lippmann, Munsbach, L-5365, Luxembourg
PSY Private Equity Management S.à.r.l. OS 100%
Schroder Adveq Asia Management V S.à.r.l. OS 100%
Schroder Adveq Direct Management III S.à.r.l.  OS 100%
Schroder Adveq Europe Management VIII S.à r.l. OS 100%
Schroder Adveq Healthcare Management S.à.r.l. OS 100%
Schroder Adveq Management Luxembourg S.à.r.l. OS 100%
Schroder Adveq Technology Management X S.à r.l. OS 100%
Schroder Adveq US Management V S.à.r.l. OS 100%
UK Retirement Living GP S.à.r.l.  OS 100%
Netherlands 
Schroder International Finance B.V. OS 100% 1 London Wall Place, London, EC2Y 5AU, England 
Singapore 
Schroder Singapore Holdings Private Limited OS 100% 138 Market Street, #23-02, CapitaGreen, Singapore, 048946, 
Singapore
SIMBL Nominees Private Limited (In Liquidation) OS 100% 24 Raffles Place, #07-03, Clifford Centre, Singapore, 048621, 
Singapore
Switzerland 
Schroder Adveq Holding AG OS 100% Affolternstrasse 56, 8050, Zurich, Switzerland
Schroder Real Estate Management Switzerland GmbH OS 100% Lavaterstrasse 40, 8002, Zurich, Switzerland
Schroder Trust AG (In Liquidation) OS 100% P.O. Box 3655, 8 rue d’italie, 1204, Geneva, Switzerland
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 173
Financial statements continued
Schroders plc – Notes to the accounts continued
38. Subsidiaries and other related undertakings continued
(a) Related undertakings arising from the Company’s corporate structure continued
Fully-owned subsidiaries continued 
Name Share class Footnote % Address
United States 
Schroder Venture Managers Inc.  COS 100% 7 Bryant Park, New York, New York, 10018, USA 
Schroders Incorporated COS 100%
Schroder FOCUS II GP, LLC PI 100% 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware, 19801, USA
Schroder FOCUS II-L GP, LLC PI 100%
Schroder Helix Investment Partner LLC OS 100%
Schroder Securitized Credit Flexible Opportunities GP, LLC PI 100%
Schroder Taft-Hartley Income GP, LLC  PI 100%
Subsidiaries where the ownership is less than 100%
Name Share class Footnote % Address
UK
Alderbrook Financial Planning Limited (In Liquidation) OS a, h 86.8% Holmwood House, Langhurstwood Road, Horsham, RH12 4QP, 
Benchmark Capital Limited OS  g 86.8% England
Brian Potter Consultants Limited (In Liquidation) OS a, h 86.8%
Chilcomb Wealth Ltd OS a 86.8%
Creative Technologies Limited OS a 86.8%
CT Connect Limited OS a, h 86.8%
GYP Limited (In Liquidation) OS a 86.8%
Invicta Independent Financial Advisers Limited (In Liquidation) OS  a, h 86.8%
Mitchell & Company Holdings (Reigate) Limited OS a 86.8%
PP Nominees Limited OS a 86.8%
PP Trustees Limited OS  a 86.8%
RIA Pension Trustees Limited OS a 86.8%
Richard Martin Financial Solutions Limited (In Liquidation) OS a, h 86.8%
Squirrel Financial Planning Limited (In Liquidation) OS a, f, g 86.8%
Redbourne Wealth Management Ltd OS a 58% Belmont House, Shrewsbury Business Park, Shrewsbury, SY2 SLG, 
England
Cazenove New Europe (CFM1) Limited OS h, j 80.9% 1 London Wall Place, London, EC2Y 5AU, England
Cazenove New Europe (PPI) Limited OS h, j 80.9%
Cazenove New Europe Staff Interest Limited OS h, j 80.9%
CCM Nominees Limited OS h, j 80.9%
Residential Land Development (GP) LLP  PI i 67%
Schroder & Co Nominees Limited OS h, j 80.9%
Schroder Wealth Holdings Limited OS 80.9%
The Lexicon Management Company Limited OS  50%
British Virgin Islands
Alpha Park Limited OS c 51% Vistra Corporate Services Centre, Wickhams Cay II, Road Town, 
Flete Holdings Limited OS c 51% Tortola, VG1110, British Virgin Islands
Pamfleet China Limited OS c 51%
Cayman Islands
Schroder Adveq Asia Management I L.P. PI 75% Maples & Calder, PO Box 309 GT, Ugland House, South Church 
Schroder Adveq Asia Management II L.P. PI 65% Street, George Town, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands
Schroder Adveq cPl Global Management L.P. PI 63%
Schroder Adveq cPl Global Management II L.P.  PI 88%
Schroder Adveq Europe Management II L.P. PI 20%
Schroder Adveq Europe Management IV A L.P. PI 59%
Schroder Adveq Europe Management IV B L.P. PI 70%
Schroder Adveq Technology Management V L.P. PI 89%
Schroder Adveq Technology Management VI L.P. PI 65%
Schroder Adveq US Management I L.P PI 76%
Schroder Adveq US Management II L.P. PI 87%
174 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
38. Subsidiaries and other related undertakings continued
(a) Related undertakings arising from the Company’s corporate structure continued
Subsidiaries where the ownership is less than 100% continued
Name Share class Footnote % Address
China
Pamfleet (Shanghai) Enterprise Management Limited  OS c 51% 302 Block 9 No 697 Weihai Road, Jing’An, Shanghai, China
France
Schroder Mid Core Infra II UP OS 70% 1 rue Euler, 75008, Paris, France
F
Schroder Mid Infra UP  OS 70% in
a
Schroders IDF IV UP OS 70% nc
Terre et Mer Holding SAS OS 80% ial s
Germany tate
CM Komplementr 06-379 GmbH & Co KG OS 95% Taunustor 1, 60310, Frankfurt, Germany m
e
Guernsey nts
SV (Nominees) Limited OS  e  50%  PO Box 255, Trafalgar Court, Les Banques, St Peter Port, Guernsey, 
GY1 3QL, Channel Islands
Hong Kong
Pamfleet Asset Management (China) Limited OS c 51% 1803, 18/F Infinitus Plaza, 199 Des Voeux Road Central, Hong Kong, 
Pamfleet Asset Management (HK) Limited OS c 51% Hong Kong
Pamfleet (HK) Limited OS c 51%
Pamfleet Holdings (Hong Kong) Limited OS 51%
Jersey
AAF Management I L.P. PI 48% 26 New Street, St Helier, Jersey, JE2 3RA, Channel Islands
GPEP Management II L.P. PI 70%
GPEP Management III L.P. PI 70%
Schroder Adveq Asia Management III L.P. PI 53%
Schroder Adveq Asia Management IV L.P. PI 70%
Schroder Adveq Europe Co-Investments Management L.P. PI 73%
Schroder Adveq Europe Management III L.P. PI 87.9%
Schroder Adveq Europe Management V L.P. PI 73%
Schroder Adveq Europe Management VI L.P. PI 74%
Schroder Adveq Global Management L.P. PI 71%
Schroder Adveq Real Assets Harvested Resources  PI 73%
Management L.P.
Schroder Adveq Secondaries Management II L.P. PI 53%
Schroder Adveq Technology Management VII L.P. PI 46%
Schroder Adveq Technology Management VIII L.P. PI 78%
Schroder Adveq US Management III L.P PI 51%
Schroder Adveq US Management IV L.P. PI 73%
TMC Management I L.P. PI 54%
TMC Management II L.P. PI 49%
Wilmersdorf Secondary Management L.P. PI 71%
Luxembourg 
BlueOrchard Invest S.à r.l OS d, e 81.5% 1 rue Goethe, L-1637, Luxembourg
Schroder Property Services B.V. OS 70% 5 rue Höhenhof, L-1736 Senningerberg, Luxembourg
SRE Invest SCSp PI 81.8%
SRE ReLF (CIP) SCSp PI 83.8%
SRE SoHo (CIP) SCSp PI 82.8%
Netherlands 
NEOS Finance Group B.V. OS 49% The Hofpoort Building, Hofplein 20, 21st Floor, 3032 AC Rotterdam, 
Netherlands
Peru 
BlueOrchard America Latina S.A.C OS d 81.5% 184 Calle German Schreiber, Office 201, San Isidro, Lima, Peru
Singapore
BlueOrchard Investments Singapore PTE Ltd OS d 81.5%  11 Amoy Street, #02-00, Singapore, 069931, Singapore 
Pamfleet Asset Management (Singapore) Pte. Limited OS c 51% 3 Pickering Street, #02-37, Nankin Row, Singapore, 048660, 
Singapore
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 175
Financial statements continued
Schroders plc – Notes to the accounts continued
38. Subsidiaries and other related undertakings continued
(a) Related undertakings arising from the Company’s corporate structure continued
Associates and joint ventures
Name Share class Footnote % Address 
UK
Algonquin (Liverpool) Limited (In Liquidation) OS 20% 6 Snow Hill, City of London, London, EC1V 2AY, England
Clarke-Walker Financial Management Limited OS a 17% 125-135 Preston Road, Fifth Floor Telecom House, Brighton, BN1 
6AF, England
Finura Partners Limited OS a 42.5% 15 Bowling Green Lane, London, EC1R 0BD, England
Kellands (Bristol) Limited OS a 27% Quays Office Park, Conference Avenue, Portishead, Bristol, BS20 7LZ, 
England
Rayner Spencer Mills Research Limited OS a 43% 20 Ryefield Business Park, Belton Road, Silsden, Keighley, West 
Yorkshire, BD20 0EE, England
Regrowth Holdings Limited OS a 21% New Barn Manor Farm Courtyard, Southam Lane Southam, 
Cheltenham, Gloucestershire, GL52 3PB, England 
Retirement Planning Partnership Ltd OS a, f 45.8% Kestrel House Alma Road, Romsey, Hampshire, SO51 8ED, England
Nippon Life Schroders Asset Management Europe Limited OS g 33% 1 London Wall Place, London, EC2Y 5AU, England 
Ruskin Square Phase One LLP PI 50%
Social Supported Housing CIP LLP PI 50%
Social Supported Housing GP LLP PI 50%
Robertson Baxter Limited OS a 21% Beck House, Abbey Road, Shepley, Huddersfield, HD8 8EP, England 
Scottish Widows Schroder Wealth Holdings Limited OS 49.9% 25 Gresham Street, London, EC2V 7HN, England
Waterhouse Financial Planning Limited OS a 17% 1 Carlisle Terrace, Derry, BT48 6JX, Northern Ireland
Belgium 
Algonquin Astrid PS 33% Avenue Louise, 523 – 1050 Bruxelles, Belgium
British Virgin Islands
Graceful Lane Limited OS 30% Vistra Corporate Services Centre, Wickhams Cay II, Road Town, 
Tortola, VG1110, British Virgin Islands
China
Bank of Communications Schroder Fund Management  OS 30% 2nd Floor Bank of Communications Tower, 188 Middle Yincheng 
Company Limited Road, Pudong New Area, Shanghai, 200120, China
France 
Algonquin France Hotels Services  OS 36% 1 rue Euler, 75008, Paris, France
JV Hotel La Villette SAS OS 50%
Guernsey 
Schroder Ventures Investments Limited OS, R, D 50% PO Box 255, Trafalgar Court Les Banques, St Peter Port, Guernsey, 
GY1 3QL, Channel Islands
India 
Axis Asset Management Company Limited OS i 25% 1st Floor, Axis House C-2 Wadia International Centre, Pandurang 
Axis Mutual Fund Trustee Limited  OS i 25% Budhkar Marg, Worli-Mumbai, 400025, India
Jersey 
Bracknell General Partner Limited OS f 50% 47 Esplanade, St Helier, JE1 0BD, Jersey
UK Retirement Living (CIP) GP Limited OS 50%
Luxembourg 
Geres Investment II S.à.r.l  OS 40% 80, route d’Esch, L-1770 Luxembourg
Singapore 
Nippon Life Global Investors Singapore Limited  OS 33% 138 Market Street, #34-02, CapitaGreen, Singapore, 048946, 
Singapore
Planar Investments Private Ltd OS 24.1% 1 Phillip Street, #06-00, Royal One Phillip, Singapore, 048692, 
Singapore
United States
A10 Capital Parent Company LLC COS 19.3% 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware, 19801, USA 
Share class abbreviations Footnotes
CS   Capital shares.  a  Owned through Benchmark Capital Limited.
COS  Common stock.  b Held directly by the Company. 
NCRPS  Non-cumulative redeemable preference shares. c  Owned through Pamfleet Holdings (Hong Kong) Limited.
CPS  Convertible preference shares.  d Owned through BlueOrchard Finance AG. 
D   Deferred shares. e  Financial year end 30 June. 
OS  Ordinary shares.  f  The Company holds ordinary A shares.
PI    Partnership interest.  g The Company holds ordinary B shares. 
PS   Promote shares.  h Dormant company.
R   Redeemable preference shares. i  Financial year end 31 March.
j  Owned through Schroder Wealth Holdings Limited.
176 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
38. Subsidiaries and other related undertakings continued
(b) Related undertakings arising from the Company’s interests in structured entities
The Company’s related undertakings also include funds in which it holds investments. These include fully and partially owned funds that are 
classified as subsidiaries. Due to the number of share classes or unit classes that can exist in these vehicles, a significant holding in a single share 
class or unit class is possible without that undertaking being classified as a subsidiary or associate.
Fully owned subsidiaries
Total holding  
Holding in   in undertaking  
Fund Name Share/unit class share/unit class via share/unit class F
in
UK a
n
Schroder Advanced Beta Global Equity Value Fund X Accumulation 100% 100% cia
Schroder Flexible Retirement Fund X Accumulation 100% 100% l sta
Australia te
m
Schroder Australian Equity Long Short Fund P Accumulation 100% 100% e
n
Brazil ts
Schroder Best Ideas FIA Unspecified 100% 100%
Schroder Core Plus FIC FIA Unspecified 100% 100%
Schroder US Dollar Bond FIC FIM IE Unspecified 100% 100%
Luxembourg
Schroder ISF Dynamic Indian Income Bond I Accumulation 100% 100%
Schroder ISF Sustainable Multi-Asset I Accumulation 100% 100%
Schroder Property FCP – FIS – Schroder Property German Residential Fund B 100% 100%
SIF Global Credit Opportunities I Accumulation 100% 100%
US
Schroder Global Sustainable Growth Fund (Canada)  Unspecified 100% 100%
Subsidiaries where the ownership is less than 100%
Total holding  
Holding in  in undertaking  
Fund Name Share/unit class share/unit class via share/unit class
UK
Schroder Advanced Beta Global Sovereign Bond Fund X Accumulation 70% 28%
Schroder Advanced Beta Global Sovereign Bond Fund I Accumulation 32% 19%
Schroder Diversified Growth Fund I Accumulation 95% 95%
Schroder Dynamic Multi Asset Fund Z Accumulation 63% 59%
Schroder Fusion Portfolio 3 F Accumulation 50% 47%
Schroder Global Emerging Markets Fund A Accumulation 65% 36%
Schroder Multi-Asset Total Return Fund X Accumulation 99% 83%
Schroder QEP Global Active Value Fund I Accumulation 99% 55%
Schroder QEP Global Emerging Markets I Accumulation 91% 87%
Schroder Responsible Value UK Equity Fund I Accumulation 84% 74%
SPW Adventurous Portfolio Fund X Accumulation 100% 80%
SPW Cautious Portfolio Fund X Accumulation 100% 39%
SPW Discovery Portfolio Fund X Accumulation 100% 65%
SPW Dynamic Portfolio Fund X Accumulation 100% 92%
SPW Progressive Portfolio Fund X Accumulation 100% 58%
Australia
Schroder Absolute Return Income Unspecified 64% 64%
Brazil
Schroder Premium 45 Advisory FI RF CP LP Unspecified 95% 95%
Wellington Schroder GAIA FIC FIM IE Unspecified 79% 79%
Japan
Schroder YEN Target Unspecified 54% 54%
Schroder YEN Target (Annual) Unspecified 40% 40%
Schroder YEN Target (Semi-Annual) Unspecified 80% 80%
Luxembourg
Schroder GAIA Helix E Accumulation 100% 50%
Schroder GAIA Helix C Accumulation GBP Hedged 99% 1%
Schroder ISF Alternative Risk Premia I Accumulation 56% 56%
Schroder ISF Changing Lifestyles I Accumulation 100% 94%
Schroder ISF European Alpha Focus I Accumulation 100% 34%
Schroder ISF European Alpha Focus C Accumulation 10% 3%
Schroder ISF European Large Cap I Accumulation 70% 64%
Schroder ISF European Sustainable Equity I Accumulation 57% 57%
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 177
Financial statements continued
Schroders plc – Notes to the accounts continued
38. Subsidiaries and other related undertakings continued
(b) Related undertakings arising from the Company’s interests in structured entities continued
Subsidiaries where the ownership is less than 100% continued
Total holding  
Holding in  in undertaking  
Fund Name  Share/unit class share/unit class via share/unit class
Luxembourg (continued)
Schroder ISF Global Credit Income Short Duration I Accumulation 80% 65%
Schroder ISF Global Disruption I Accumulation 52% 43%
Schroder ISF Global Managed Growth I Accumulation 100% 99%
Schroder ISF Global Sustainable Convertible Bond I Accumulation 66% 44%
Schroder ISF QEP Global Equity Market Neutral I Accumulation GBP Hedged 100% 57%
Schroder ISF QEP Global Equity Market Neutral I Accumulation EUR Hedged 87% 1%
Schroder ISF QEP Global Equity Market Neutral I Accumulation 12% 4%
Schroder ISF Smart Manufacturing I Accumulation 95% 54%
Schroder ISF Sustainable Multi-Asset Income C Accumulation 100% 45%
SSSF Wealth Management USD Cautious S Accumulation 95% 74%
SSSF Wealth Management USD Growth S Accumulation 80% 72%
SSSF Wealth Management USD Balanced S Accumulation 92% 45%
United States
Hartford Schroders China A Fund SD Accumulation 100% 44%
Hartford Schroders Opportunistic Income Fund SD Distribution 100% 49%
Schroder Securitized Credit Fund Limited A Distribution 85% 85%
Associates
Total holding  
Holding in  in undertaking  
Fund Name Share/unit class share/unit class via share/unit class
UK
Schroder All Maturities Corporate Bond Fund X Accumulation 33% 22%
Schroder All Maturities Corporate Bond Fund I Accumulation 44% 12%
Schroder Fusion Managed Defensive Fund F Accumulation 25% 25%
Schroder India Equity X Accumulation 23% 23%
Schroder Long Dated Corporate Bond Fund I Accumulation 56% 26%
SPW Balanced Portfolio Fund X Accumulation 100% 24%
Japan
Schroder Global CB Fund PPIT Unhedged Unspecified 24% 24%
Luxembourg
ICBC (Europe) UCITS SICAV X Accumulation USD 33% 33%
Schroder ISF Healthcare Innovation I Accumulation 100% 21%
United States
Schroder Absolute Return Emerging Markets Debt Portfolio LP Unspecified 30% 30%
Significant holdings in structured entities not classified as subsidiaries or associates
Total holding  
Holding in   in undertaking  
Fund Name Share/unit class share/unit class via share/unit class
UK
Schroder Absolute Return Bond Fund X Income 100% 19%
Schroder Advanced Beta Global Corporate Bond Fund X Accumulation 37% 9%
Schroder European Fund I Income 33% 0%
Schroder Global Equity Fund I Accumulation 37% 1%
Schroder Global Multi-Factor Equity Fund X Accumulation 39% 8%
Schroder Institutional Pacific Fund I Accumulation 42% 8%
Schroder Institutional UK Smaller Companies Fund X Accumulation 100% 6%
Schroder QEP Global Core Fund I Accumulation 41% 4%
Schroder Sterling Broad Market Bond Fund I Accumulation 35% 4%
Schroder US Equity Income Maximiser L Accumulation GBP Hedged 89% 0%
Cayman Islands
Musashi Smart Premia Fund (Exclusively for Qualified Institutional Investors with Re-Sale  B 100% 0%
Restriction for the Japanese Investors)
Musashi Smart Premia Fund (Exclusively for Qualified Institutional Investors with Re-Sale  C 100% 1%
Restriction for the Japanese Investors)
178 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
38. Subsidiaries and other related undertakings continued
(b) Related undertakings arising from the Company’s interests in structured entities continued
Significant holdings in structured entities not classified as subsidiaries or associates continued
Total holding  
Holding in   in undertaking  
Fund Name Share/unit class share/unit class via share/unit class
Luxembourg
Schroder Alternative Solutions Commodity Fund I Accumulation GBP Hedged 97% 0%
Schroder Alternative Solutions Commodity Total Return Fund I Accumulation GBP Hedged 99% 5%
F
Schroder Alternative Solutions Commodity Total Return Fund I Accumulation EUR Hedged 92% 1% ina
n
Schroder GAIA BlueTrend C Accumulation CHF Hedged 43% 0% c
ia
Schroder GAIA II Specialist Private Equity I Accumulation 89% 8% l s
ta
Schroder GAIA II Specialist Private Equity C Accumulation 43% 2% te
m
Schroder ISF Alternative Securitised Income IZ Accumulation 100% 1% e
n
Schroder ISF Emerging Markets Debt Absolute Return I Accumulation EUR Hedged 100% 0% ts
Schroder ISF EURO High Yield I Accumulation 77% 0%
Schroder ISF Global Credit Income I Accumulation 28% 0%
Schroder ISF Global Energy I Accumulation 32% 0%
Schroder ISF Global Equity Yield I Accumulation EUR 99% 0%
Schroder ISF Global Gold I Accumulation EUR Hedged 99% 0%
Schroder ISF Global Gold I Accumulation 100% 1%
Schroder ISF Global High Yield I Accumulation GBP Hedged 42% 0%
Schroder ISF Global Multi Credit I Accumulation EUR Hedged 98% 0%
Schroder ISF Global Multi-Asset Balanced I Accumulation CHF Hedged 88% 0%
Schroder ISF Global Recovery I Accumulation 23% 2%
Schroder ISF Global Sustainable Growth I Accumulation GBP 54% 14%
Schroder ISF Inflation Plus I Accumulation 24% 8%
Schroder ISF Middle East I Accumulation 100% 0%
Schroder ISF Multi-Asset Total Return I Accumulation EUR Hedged 96% 0%
Schroder ISF QEP Global Value Plus I Accumulation 100% 3%
Schroder ISF Strategic Bond I Accumulation EUR Hedged 100% 0%
Schroder ISF Sustainable Swiss Equity I Accumulation 20% 2%
Schroder Property FCP – FIS – Schroder Property Eurologistics Fund No.1 (A) B 100% 1%
Schroder Property FCP – FIS – Schroder Property Eurologistics Fund No.1 (B) B 100% 3%
The registered offices for each of the related undertakings listed on pages 177 to 179 are reflected by country below:
UK Luxembourg
1 London Wall Place, London, EC2Y 5AU, England The registered office for the Luxembourg related undertakings is 5 rue 
Höhenhof, L-1736 Senningerberg, Luxembourg, except for the following:
Australia
Level 20, Angel Place, 123 Pitt Street, Sydney, NSW 2000, Australia The registered office for the following related undertakings is 80, route d’Esch, 
L-1470 Luxembourg
Brazil
The registered office for the Brazil related undertakings is Av. Presidente Wilson,  ICBC (Europe) UCITS SICAV
nº 231, 11º andar, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, except for the following: Schroder Property FCP-FIS – Schroder Property German Residential Fund
Schroder Property FCP-FIS – Schroder Property EuroLogistics Fund No.1 (A)
The registered office for the following related undertaking is Núcleo Cidade de  Schroder Property FCP-FIS – Schroder Property EuroLogistics Fund No.1 (B)
Deus, Prédio Amarelo, 1o andar, Vila Yara, Osasco, SP, Brazil
United States
Schroder Best Ideas FIA The registered office for the United States related undertakings is 7 Bryant Park, 
Cayman Islands New York, New York, 10018, USA, except for the following:
Maples Corporate Services Limited, Ugland House, PO Box 309, Grand Cayman,  The registered office for the following related undertakings is 690 Lee Road, 
KY11-1104, Cayman Islands Wayne, Pennsylvania, 19087, USA
Japan Hartford Schroders China A Fund
The registered office for the following related undertaking is 1-8-3 Marunouchi  Hartford Schroders Opportunistic Income Fund
Chiyoda-Ku, Tokyo, Japan
Schroder Global CB Fund PPIT Unhedged
The registered office for the following related undertakings is 1-1 Chuo-ku, 
Saitama City, Saitama Shintoshin Godo Choushya 1st Building, Saitama 
Prefecture, 330-9716, Japan
Schroder YEN Target
Schroder YEN Target (Annual)
Schroder YEN Target (Semi-Annual)
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 179
Financial statements continued
Independent auditor’s report to the members  
of Schroders plc
Opinion
In our opinion:
– Schroders plc’s Group financial statements and Parent company financial statements (the ‘financial statements’) give a true and fair view of the 
state of the Group’s and of the Parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 2020 and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;
– the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with international accounting standards in conformity with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and international financial reporting standards adopted pursuant to Regulation (EC) No. 1606/2002 
as it applies in the European Union;
– the Parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with international accounting standards in conformity 
with the requirements of Companies Act 2006 as applied in accordance with section 408 of the Companies Act 2006; and
– the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
We have audited the financial statements of Schroders plc (the ‘Parent company’) and its subsidiaries (the ‘Group’) for the year ended 31 
December 2020 which comprise:
Group Parent company
Consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2020 Schroders plc – Statement of financial position at 31 December 2020
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31  Schroders plc – Statement of changes in equity for the year ended 
December 2020 31 December 2020
Consolidated statement of financial position at 31 December 2020 Schroders plc – Cash flow statement for the year ended 31 
December 2020
Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31  Schroders plc – Notes to the accounts 30 to 38 
December 2020
Consolidated cash flow statement for the year ended 31 December 2020
Notes to the accounts 1 to 29 and Presentation of the financial statements
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and international accounting standards in 
conformity with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards to the Group financial statements, international financial reporting 
standards adopted pursuant to Regulation (EC) No. 1606/2002 as it applies in the European Union and, as regards the Parent company financial 
statements, as applied in accordance with section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
Basis for opinion 
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (‘ISAs (UK)’) and applicable law. Our responsibilities under 
those standards are further described in the ‘Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements’ section of our report. We are 
independent of the Group and Parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial 
statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Council’s (‘FRC’) Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have 
fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Conclusions relating to going concern
In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the 
financial statements is appropriate. To evaluate the Directors’ assessment of the Group and Parent company’s ability to continue to adopt the 
going concern basis of accounting, we have:
– assessed the assumptions used in management’s five-year forecast and determined that the models are appropriate to enable management 
to make an assessment on the going concern and viability of the Group. We also performed back-testing on prior year forecasts;
– evaluated the capital and liquidity position of the Group by reviewing the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process, the Internal Liquidity 
Adequacy Assessment Process and the Recovery Plan; 
– assessed the appropriateness of the stress and reverse stress test scenarios that consider the key risks identified by management. We 
evaluated management’s analysis by testing the clerical accuracy and assessing the conclusions reached in the stress and reverse stress test 
scenarios;
– assessed the plausibility of available options to mitigate the impact of the key risks by comparing them to our understanding of the Group;
– performed enquiries of management and those charged with governance to identify risks or events that may impact the Group’s ability to 
continue as a going concern. We also reviewed the management paper approved by the Board, minutes of meetings of the Board and its 
committees, and made enquiries as to the impact of Covid-19 on the business; and
– assessed the appropriateness of the going concern disclosures by comparing the consistency with management’s assessment and for 
compliance with the relevant reporting requirements.
Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or conditions that, individually or 
collectively, may cast significant doubt on the Group and Parent company’s ability to continue as a going concern for twelve months from the 
date the Annual Report and Accounts is signed.
180 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
In relation to the Group and Parent company’s reporting on how they have applied the UK Corporate Governance Code, we have nothing 
material to add or draw attention to in relation to the Directors’ statement in the financial statements about whether the directors considered it 
appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting.
Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the Directors with respect to going concern are described in the relevant sections of this report. 
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Group and Parent company’s 
ability to continue as a going concern.
Overview of our audit approach
Audit scope – The Group is comprised of over 290 legal entities domiciled in 31 countries.
– We performed an audit of the complete financial information of six legal entities and audit procedures on specific  Fin
balances for a further 19 legal entities. an
c
– The legal entities where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 96% of profit before tax and  ial s
exceptional items, 92% of revenue and 95% of total assets. ta
te
– Certain of the Group’s processes over financial reporting are centralised in the finance operations hubs of London,  m
e
Luxembourg, Singapore and Zurich and as a result, the majority of our testing was performed in these locations. n
ts
Key audit matters – Improper recognition of revenue
– Improper recognition of cost of sales
Materiality – Overall Group materiality of £35 million, which represents 5% of profit before tax and exceptional items.
An overview of the scope of the Parent company and Group audits
Tailoring the scope
Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each 
entity within the Group. Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We take into account size, 
risk profile, the organisation of the Group and effectiveness of Group-wide controls, changes in the business environment and other factors, 
such as the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic or recent Internal Audit results, when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity. 
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of 
significant accounts in the financial statements, we selected 25 legal entities within the following countries: United Kingdom, Luxembourg, 
Switzerland, Singapore, Australia, China, Guernsey, Indonesia, Japan, and United States of America.
Of the 25 legal entities selected, we performed an audit of the complete financial information of six legal entities (full scope entities) which were 
selected based on their size or risk characteristics. For the remaining 19 legal entities (specific scope entities), we performed audit procedures on 
specific accounts within that legal entity that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the Group 
financial statements, either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
For the remaining entities that together represent 4% of the Group’s profit before tax and exceptional items, we performed other Group 
procedures, including: analytical review, testing of consolidation journals and intercompany eliminations, centralised processes and controls, 
and foreign currency translation recalculations, to respond to potential risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
The charts below illustrate the coverage obtained from the work performed by our audit teams.
Profit before tax and exceptional items Revenue
 Full scop e components 81% (2019: 90%)  Full scop e components 65% (2019: 67%)
 Speciﬁc scope com ponents 15% (2019: 8%)  Speciﬁc scope com ponents 27% (2019: 25%)
 Other procedures   4% (2019: 2%)  Other procedures   8% (2019: 8%)
       
Changes from the prior year 
Schroder (C.I.) Limited was considered a specific scope entity for the current year audit. It was previously considered to be full scope.
Schroder Private Assets Holdings Limited was previously considered to be a specific scope entity, but was not considered to be specific or full 
scope for the current year audit.
Schroder Singapore Holdings Private Limited and Fusion Wealth Limited were considered specific scope entities for the current year audit. Both 
entities were previously considered to be neither specific nor full scope.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 181
Financial statements continued
Independent auditor’s report to the members  
of Schroders plc continued
The audit was largely conducted remotely using video calls, share-screen functionality, secure encrypted document exchanges and read-only 
access to Schroders systems to avoid any limitation on the audit evidence required.
Involvement with overseas teams 
In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the legal 
entities by us, as the Group audit team, or by local auditors from other EY global network firms operating under our instruction. 
Schroders has centralised processes and controls over financial reporting within the finance operations hubs of London, Luxembourg, Singapore 
and Zurich. Our teams in these locations performed centralised testing in the finance hubs for certain accounts including revenue, costs of sales, 
administrative expenses, variable compensation, provisions and intercompany transactions.
For non-centralised processes, the audit work was performed by legal entity auditors. The Group audit team was responsible for the scope and 
direction of the audit process in each entity, interacting regularly with the local EY teams during each stage of the audit and reviewing key 
working papers. This, together with the additional procedures performed at Group level, and the centralised testing, gave us appropriate 
evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
During 2020, it was not possible for the Senior Statutory Auditor, Julian Young, and other Group audit team members to visit component teams 
outside the UK, as has occurred in previous years. The Group team maintained oversight of component teams through remote collaboration 
platforms and regular meetings, in particular with the Luxembourg, Zurich, and Singapore audit teams. This allowed the Group team to gain a 
greater understanding of the business issues faced in each location, discuss the audit approach with the local team and any issues arising from 
their work, virtually attend meetings with local management, and review key audit working papers.
Key audit matters 
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the 
current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement (whether or not due to fraud) that we identified. These 
matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit; and directing the 
efforts of the engagement team. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our 
opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Risk Our response to the risk
Group only risk: We have:
Improper recognition of revenue (£2,512.7 million, 
– confirmed and updated our understanding of the procedures and controls in place 
2019: £2,537.0 million)
throughout the revenue process, including those impacted by operational changes 
Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee report (page 69)  due to COVID-19, both at Schroders, through walkthrough procedures, and at third 
and Note 2 of the Consolidated financial statements  party administrators, through review of independent controls assurance reports;
(pages 114 to 117)
– IT systems: tested the controls over access to, and changes to, the systems 
Schroders manages funds in numerous domiciles,  underpinning the revenue process, including testing controls over the flow of data 
which consist of many share classes. Schroders also  between systems for completeness and accuracy;
manages segregated portfolios for a range of  – fee agreements: tested the controls over new and amended fee agreements. For a 
institutions and provides wealth management  sample of fees, agreed the fee terms used in the calculation to investment 
services. The inputs and calculation methodologies  management agreements (‘IMAs’), fee letters or fund prospectuses. Verified 
that drive the fees vary significantly across this  management’s interpretation of the calculation methodology as set out in the 
population. In particular, performance fees and  agreement and applied in the revenue systems or in management’s manual 
segregated accounts have a range of calculation  calculations;
methodologies due to the number of bespoke 
– calculation: tested automated controls over the arithmetical accuracy of a sample 
arrangements. For certain revenue streams, 
of fee calculations within the relevant systems;
management must apply judgment in accordance with 
IFRS 15 – Revenue from contracts with customers  – AUM: tested the controls in place for the calculation and existence of AUM used in 
(’IFRS 15’) to determine whether it is highly probable  the fee calculations. For a sample of fees, tested the completeness and accuracy of 
that a significant reversal will not occur in the future.  AUM included in the fee calculation systems to administrator reports or Schroders’ 
investment management systems;
The following are identified as the key risks or 
subjective areas of revenue recognition: – billing: tested controls over the billing and cash management process. For a 
sample of fees, agreed the amounts recorded to the invoice sent to the client, as 
– not all agreements in place have been identified and  well as assessing the recoverability of debtors through testing of subsequent cash 
accounted for; receipts and inspection of the aged debtors report;
– fee terms have not been correctly interpreted or  – carried interest: challenged management over the judgments and estimates used 
entered into the fee calculation and billing systems; in the valuation of the carried interest receivable, including the constraints applied 
– assets under management (‘AUM’) has not been  under IFRS 15. For a sample of Schroder Adveq funds, agreed the inputs used in 
properly attributed to fee agreements; the carried interest calculations to third party sources, where applicable, and legal 
agreements; recalculated the value of the carried interest receivable; and traced 
– errors in manually calculated revenues, such as 
the discounted carried interest income to the revenue recorded;
performance fees and carried interest; and
– performance fees: for a sample of performance fees, we have agreed the inputs 
– inappropriate judgments are made by management 
used in the performance fee calculations to accounting records, third party sources 
in the calculation and recognition of carried interest.
and legal agreements; recalculating the value of the fee; and tracing the amounts 
There is also the risk that management may influence  invoiced to the revenue recorded;
the timing or recognition of revenue in order to meet 
market expectations or net operating revenue-based 
targets.
182 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Risk Our response to the risk
The risk has increased in the current year due to the  – review of other information: inspected the global complaints register and operational 
COVID-19 pandemic as management’s processes  incident log to identify errors in revenue or control deficiencies due to changes to 
and controls may not operate as they were designed  operations as a result of remote working; and
to due to changes in operations as a result of  – management override: in order to address the residual risk of management override we 
remote working. have performed enquiries of management, read minutes throughout the year and 
performed journal entry testing.
We performed full and specific scope audit procedures over this risk area in five locations, 
which covered 92% of the total revenue. Due to the centralised nature of the revenue  Fin
process, the majority of our testing was performed in London and Luxembourg for Asset  an
c
Management revenue and Zurich for Wealth Management revenue. ia
l s
ta
Key observations communicated to the Schroders Audit and Risk Committee te
m
All transactions tested have been recognised in accordance with the underlying agreements or other supporting documentation. Revenue has  e
n
been recorded materially in accordance with IFRS 15.  ts
Based on the procedures performed, we have no matters to report in respect of revenue recognition.
Risk Our response to the risk
Group only risk: We have:
Improper recognition of cost of sales (£453.1 
– confirmed and updated our understanding of the procedures and controls in place 
million, 2019: £484.6 million)
throughout the cost of sales process, including those impacted by operational changes 
Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee report (page  due to COVID-19, both at Schroders, through walkthrough procedures, and at third party 
69) and Note 2 of the Consolidated financial  administrators, through review of independent controls assurance reports;
statements (pages 114 to 117)
– IT systems: tested the controls over access to, and changes to, the systems underpinning 
Schroders has fee expense agreements in place  the fee expense process, including testing controls over the flow of data between 
with many parties. These expenses include:  systems to test completeness and accuracy;
commissions, carried interest payable, external  – fee expense agreements: tested the controls over new agreements and amended fee 
fund manager fees, and distribution fees  expense agreements. For a sample of fee expenses performed by Schroders and an 
payable to financial institutions, investment  additional sample performed by external third parties, agreed the fee expense terms 
platform providers and financial advisers. The  used in the calculation to IMAs, fee letters or rebate agreements. Verified management’s 
expenses are generally based on AUM. interpretation of the calculation methodology as set out in the agreement and applied in 
The following are identified as the key risks or  the fee expense systems;
subjective areas in correctly recognising fee  – calculation: tested automated controls over the arithmetical accuracy of a sample of fee 
expense: expense calculations within the relevant systems;
– not all agreements in place have been  – AUM: tested the controls in place for the calculation and existence of AUM used in the fee 
identified and accounted for; expense calculations. For a sample of fee expenses, tested the completeness and 
accuracy of the AUM included in the calculation to Schroders’ transfer agency or 
– fee expense terms have not been correctly 
investment management systems;
interpreted;
– billing: tested controls over the cash management process. For a sample of fee expenses, 
– AUM has not been properly identified or 
agreed the amount recorded to the rebate statement sent to the client; 
attributed to clients or third parties with fee 
expense arrangements; and – carried interest: challenged management over the judgments and estimates used in the 
valuation of the carried interest liability. For a sample of Schroder Adveq funds: agreed 
– inappropriate judgments are made by 
the inputs used in the carried interest calculations to accounting records, third party 
management in the calculation of carried 
sources and legal agreements; recalculated the value of the carried interest liability; and 
interest payable.
traced the discounted carried interest expense to the cost of sales recorded;
There is also the risk that management may 
– review of other information: inspected the global complaints register and operational 
influence the timing or recognition of cost of 
incident log to identify errors in fee expense or control deficiencies due to changes to 
sales in order to meet market expectations or 
operations as a result of remote working, and to verify that fee expense errors have been 
net operating revenue-based targets.
appropriately addressed; and
The risk has increased in the current year due to 
– management override: in order to address the residual risk of management override we 
the COVID-19 pandemic as management’s 
have performed enquiries of management, read minutes throughout the year and 
processes and controls may not operate as they 
performed journal entry testing.
were designed to due to changes in operations 
as a result of remote working. We performed full and specific scope audit procedures over this risk area in London and 
Luxembourg, which covered 94% of total cost of sales.
Key observations communicated to the Schroders Audit and Risk Committee
All transactions tested have been recognised in accordance with the underlying agreements or other supporting documentation. Revenue has 
been recorded materially in accordance with IFRS 15. 
Based on the procedures performed, we have no matters to report in respect of revenue recognition
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 183
Financial statements continued
Independent auditor’s report to the members  
of Schroders plc continued
Prior year comparison
In the prior year, our auditor’s report included a key audit matter in relation to ‘Accounting for corporate activity’. This is not considered to be a 
key audit matter in the current year as the total number and materiality of transactions undertaken during the year has decreased. 
Our application of materiality 
We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in 
forming our audit opinion.
Materiality
The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions 
of the users of the financial statements. Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be £35 million (2019: £35 million), which is 5% (2019: 5%) of profit before tax and exceptional items. 
We believe that profit before tax and exceptional items is the most relevant performance measure to the stakeholders of the entity.
We determined materiality for the Parent company to be £47 million (2019: £47 million), which is 1% (2019: 1%) of net assets. The Parent 
company primarily holds the investments in Group entities and, therefore, net assets is considered to be the key focus for users of the  
financial statements.
During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality based on 31 December 2020 profit before tax and exceptional items, and 
adjusted our audit procedures accordingly.
Performance materiality
The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level. It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that 
the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Group’s overall control environment, our judgment was that 
performance materiality was 75% (2019: 75%) of our planning materiality, namely £26 million (2019: £26 million).
Audit work at entity level, for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts, is undertaken based on a 
percentage of total performance materiality. The performance materiality set for each entity is based on the relative scale and risk of the entity 
to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that entity. In the current year, the range of performance materiality 
allocated to individual entities was £5.2 million to £14.3 million (2019: £5.2 million to £14.3 million).
Reporting threshold
An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of £1.8 million (2019: £1.7 
million), which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on 
qualitative grounds. 
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant 
qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Other information 
The other information comprises the information included in the Annual Report set out on pages 1 to 106 and 187 to 192 including the Strategic 
report, Governance, and Shareholder information sections, other than the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon. The Directors 
are responsible for the other information in the Annual Report.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, 
we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. 
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the 
financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the course of the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify such 
material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the 
financial statements themselves. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other 
information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
184 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:
– the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the financial statements; and 
– the Strategic report and the Directors’ report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the Parent company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit,   F
in
we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic report or the Directors’ report. a
n
c
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if,   ial s
in our opinion: ta
te
– adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from  m
e
branches not visited by us; or nts
– the Parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns; or
– certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
– we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Corporate Governance Statement
The Listing Rules require us to review the Directors’ statement in relation to going concern, longer-term viability and that part of the Corporate 
Governance Statement relating to the Group and Parent company’s compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
specified for our review.
Based on the work undertaken as part of our audit, we have concluded that each of the following elements of the Corporate Governance 
Statement is materially consistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained during the audit:
– Directors’ statement with regards to the appropriateness of adopting the going concern basis of accounting and any material uncertainties 
identified, as set out on page 105;
– Directors’ explanation as to its assessment of the Parent company’s prospects, the period this assessment covers and why the period is 
appropriate, as set out on page 56:
– Directors’ statement on fair, balanced and understandable, as set out on page 106;
– Board’s confirmation that it has carried out a robust assessment of the emerging and principal risks, as set out on page 56;
– the section of the Annual Report that describes the review of effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems, as set out on 
page 73; and
– the section describing the work of the Audit and Risk Committee, as set out on page 69.
Responsibilities of Directors
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ responsibilities set out on page 106, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of 
the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is 
necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. 
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Group and Parent company’s ability to continue as a going 
concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either 
intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements 
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but 
is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements 
can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the 
economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 185
Financial statements continued
Independent auditor’s report to the members  
of Schroders plc continued
Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud
Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design procedures in line with our responsibilities, 
outlined above, to detect irregularities, including fraud. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of 
not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, 
or through collusion. The extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud, is detailed below.
However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the Parent 
company and management. 
– We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the Group and determined that the most 
significant are those that relate to the reporting framework (international financial reporting standards adopted pursuant to Regulation (EC) 
No. 1606/2002 as it applies in the European Union, the Companies Act 2006 and UK Corporate Governance Code) and relevant tax compliance 
regulations. In addition, we concluded that there are certain significant laws and regulations which may have an effect on the determination 
of the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements being the Listing Rules and relevant Prudential Regulation Authority (‘PRA’) and 
Financial Conduct Authority (‘FCA’) rules and regulations.
– We understood how Schroders plc is complying with those frameworks by making enquiries of senior management, including the Chief 
Financial Officer, General Counsel, Company Secretary, Head of Compliance, Head of Risk, Head of Internal Audit and the Chairman of the 
Audit and Risk Committee. We corroborated our understanding through our review of board and committee meeting minutes, papers 
provided to the Audit and Risk Committee, and correspondence received from regulatory bodies.
– We assessed the susceptibility of the Group’s financial statements to material misstatement, including how fraud might occur, by meeting 
with management to understand where they considered there was susceptibility to fraud. We also considered performance targets and their 
potential influence on efforts made by management to manage or influence the perceptions of analysts. We considered the controls that the 
Group has established to address risks identified, or that otherwise prevent, deter and detect fraud, including in a remote-working 
environment; and how senior management monitors these controls. Where the risk was considered to be higher, we performed audit 
procedures to address each identified fraud risk.
– Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations identified in the 
paragraphs above. Our procedures involved: journal entry testing, with a focus on manual journals and journals indicating large or unusual 
transactions based on our understanding of the business; enquiries of senior management, including those at full and specific scope entities; 
and focused testing, as referred to in the key audit matters section above.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at 
https://www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditor’s report.
Other matters we are required to address
– Following the recommendation from the Audit and Risk Committee, we were appointed by the Parent company on 9 March 2018 to audit the 
financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2018 and subsequent financial periods. Our appointment as auditor was approved by 
shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 26 April 2018. 
– The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments is three years, covering the years ending 
2018 to 2020.
– The non-audit services prohibited by the FRC’s Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent company and we remain 
independent of the Group and the Parent company in conducting the audit. 
– The audit opinion is consistent with the Audit Results Report to the Audit and Risk Committee. 
Use of our report
This report is made solely to the Parent company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our 
audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an 
auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than 
the company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Julian Young (Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor
London
3 March 2021
186 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Shareholder information
Schroders plc  Dividends 
Registered in England and Wales Company No. 3909886 Paying dividends into a bank or building society account helps reduce 
the risk of fraud and will provide you with quicker access to your 
Registered office 
funds than payment by cheque. Applications for an electronic 
1 London Wall Place, London, EC2Y 5AU  mandate can be made by contacting the Registrar.
Tel: +44 (0) 20 7658 6000 
Email: companysecretary@schroders.com  If your dividend is paid directly into your bank or building society 
Website: schroders.com account, you will receive an annual consolidated dividend 
confirmation, which will be sent to you in September each year at the 
Share Registrar time the interim dividend is paid. 
Computershare Investor Services PLC 
Dividend confirmations are available electronically at investorcentre.
The Pavilions 
co.uk to those shareholders who have their payments mandated to 
Bridgwater Road 
their bank or building society accounts and who have expressed a 
Bristol BS99 6ZZ
preference for electronic communications.
UK Shareholder helpline:
The Company operates a Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRIP), which 
Freephone (UK callers only): 0800 923 1530  provides shareholders with a way of increasing their shareholding  
International: +44 117 378 8170  in the Company by reinvesting their dividends. A copy of the DRIP 
Fax: +44 (0) 870 703 6101  terms and conditions and application form can be obtained from  
Website: investorcentre.co.uk the Registrar. Sh
a
Financial calendar Details of dividend payments can be found in the Directors’ report on  reh
Ex-dividend date 25 March 2021 page 104. old
e
Record date 26 March 2021 Schroders offers a service to shareholders in participating countries  r in
DRIP election date deadline 14 April 2021 that enables dividends to be received in local currencies. You can  form
Annual General Meeting 29 April 2021 cthhee cRke ygoisutrr aerl.igibility and/or request a mandate form by contacting  atio
n
Final dividend payment date 6 May 2021
Warning to shareholders
Half-year results announcement 29 July 2021
Companies are aware that their shareholders have received 
Interim dividend paid* September 2021
unsolicited telephone calls or correspondence concerning investment 
* Date to be confirmed. matters. These are typically from overseas-based ‘brokers’ who target 
UK shareholders, offering to sell them what often turn out to be 
Annual General Meeting
worthless or high risk shares or investments. These operations are 
Our AGM will be held at 11.30 a.m. on 29 April 2021 at 1 London Wall  commonly known as ‘boiler rooms’. These ‘brokers’ can be very 
Place, London, EC2Y 5AU. persistent and extremely persuasive.
Investor Centre Shareholders are advised to be wary of any unsolicited advice, offers 
Computershare is the Company’s share registrar. Investor Centre is  to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports. If you 
Computershare’s free, self-service website where shareholders can  receive any unsolicited investment advice:
manage their interests online. – Make sure you get the correct name of the person and 
The website enables shareholders to: organisation 
– Check that they are properly authorised by the FCA before getting 
– View share balances
involved by visiting register.fca.org.uk
– Change address details
– Report the matter to the FCA by calling 0800 111 6768 or visiting 
– View payment and tax information
fca.org.uk/consumers/report-scam-unauthorised-firm
– Update payment instructions
– Do not deal with any firm that you are unsure about
– Update communication instructions
If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to 
Shareholders can register their email address at investorcentre.co.uk  receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme. 
to be notified electronically of events such as AGMs, and can receive  The FCA provides a list of unauthorised firms of which it is aware, 
shareholder communications such as the Annual Report and  which can be accessed at fca.org.uk/consumers/unauthorised-firms-
Accounts and the Notice of Meeting online. individuals#list.
Enquiries and notifications concerning dividends, share certificates or  More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found on 
transfers and address changes should be sent to the Registrar. the FCA website at fca.org.uk/consumers/protect-yourself-scams.
Capital gains tax
Capital gains tax values for the Company’s shares as at 31 March 
1982 and values relating to the disposal of the investment banking 
business in 2000 can be found on the Company’s website.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 187
Financial statements continued
Five-year consolidated financial summary
2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
Before exceptional items £m £m £m £m £m
Profit before tax 702.3 701.2 761.2 800.3 644.7
Tax (133.5) (140.5) (163.3) (171.6) (132.4)
Profit after tax 568.8 560.7 597.9 628.7 512.3
2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
After exceptional items £m £m £m £m £m
Profit before tax 610.5 624.6 649.9 760.2 618.1
Tax (124.5) (128.9) (145.2) (165.8) (127.9)
Profit after tax 486.0 495.7 504.7 594.4 490.2
2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
Pre-exceptional earnings per share: Pence Pence Pence Pence Pence
Basic earnings per share1 200.8 201.6 215.8 226.9 186.3
Diluted earnings per share1 197.2 198.0 211.8 222.4 182.4
2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
Post-exceptional earnings per share: Pence Pence Pence Pence Pence
Basic earnings per share1 172.4 178.9 183.1 215.3 178.3
Diluted earnings per share1 169.3 175.8 179.7 211.0 174.5
Dividends: 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
Cost (£m) 311.7 312.3 311.7 267.6 236.6
Pence per share2 114.0 114.0 114.0 98.0 87.0
Total equity (£m) 4,085.9 3,847.5 3,621.2 3,471.0 3,152.8
Net assets per share (pence)3 1,446 1,362 1,282 1,229 1,115
2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
Group employees at year end 31 December Number Number Number Number Number
United Kingdom 3,188 3,284 2,798 2,535 2,264
Europe, Middle East and Africa 938 964 873 822 716
Americas 379 376 369 353 331
Asia Pacific 1,066 1,049 999 909 834
5,571 5,673 5,039 4,619 4,145
1. See note 6 for the basis of this calculation.
2. Dividends per share are those amounts approved by the shareholders to be paid within the year on a per share basis to the shareholders on the register at the 
specified dates.
3. Net assets per share are calculated by using the actual number of shares in issue at the year end date (see note 21).
Exchange rates – closing 31 December 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
Sterling:
Euro 1.12 1.18 1.11 1.13 1.17
US dollar 1.37 1.32 1.27 1.35 1.24
Swiss franc 1.21 1.28 1.26 1.32 1.26
Australian dollar 1.77 1.88 1.81 1.73 1.71
Hong Kong dollar 10.60 10.32 9.97 10.57 9.58
Japanese yen 141.13 143.97 139.73 152.39 144.12
Singaporean dollar 1.81 1.78 1.74 1.81 1.79
Chinese renminbi 8.89 9.23 8.74 8.81 8.59
Exchange rates – average 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
Sterling:
Euro 1.13 1.14 1.13 1.15 1.23
US dollar 1.29 1.28 1.33 1.30 1.36
Swiss franc 1.21 1.27 1.30 1.27 1.34
Australian dollar 1.87 1.84 1.78 1.69 1.83
Hong Kong dollar 10.05 10.03 10.44 10.10 10.52
Japanese yen 137.89 139.63 147.17 145.42 149.31
Singaporean dollar 1.78 1.74 1.80 1.79 1.88
Chinese renminbi 8.93 8.83 88.82 8.75 8.99
188 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Glossary
For Schroder Adveq, the aggregate value of assets managed is 
Alternative performance measures based on committed funds by clients. This is changed to the lower of 
committed funds and net asset value, typically after seven years 
An alternative performance measure (APM) is a financial measure 
from the initial investment, in line with the fee basis.
of historical or future financial performance, financial position, 
or cash flows, other than a financial measure defined or specified  Basis point (bps)
in the applicable financial reporting framework. Certain of the  One one-hundredth of a percentage point (0.01%).
Group’s APMs exclude exceptional items which are defined in note 
1(b) on page 113 and presented separately in the Consolidated  Beta
Market returns.
income statement. The Group’s APMs are defined below.
Carbon dioxide equivalent (COe)
Annualised net new revenue 2
A standard unit for measuring carbon footprints. It enables the 
The net operating revenue that would be earned over a one year 
impact of different greenhouse gas emissions on global warming 
timeframe if the net new business was all transacted on the 
to be expressed using an equivalent amount of carbon dioxide (CO) 
same day and there were no market movements or other  2
as a reference.
changes to assets under management or fee rates over that 
year. It is calculated as gross new funds from clients multiplied  Carried interest
by the applicable net operating revenue margin for each flow,  Carried interest is similar to the performance fees we earn on our core 
less gross funds withdrawn multiplied by the applicable net  business, but is part of Private Assets & Alternatives fee structures.
operating revenue margin for each flow. This measure provides 
CDP
additional information to better assess the impact of net new  S
The Carbon Disclosure Project is a not-for-profit charity that runs the  h
business on the Group’s net operating revenue. global disclosure system for investors, companies, cities, states and  are
h
Basic or diluted earnings per share before exceptional items regions to manage their environmental impacts. old
Pwreoifgith ateftde ra tvaexr baguet  bneufomrbe eerx ocef psthioanreasl  i(tseemes n doivteid 6e do nb yp tahgee r e1l2e1v)a. nt  CClliieennt ti ninvevsetmstemnte pnetr pfoerrmfoanrmceance is a measure of how investments are  er info
The presentation of earnings per share before exceptional items  performing relative to a benchmark or other comparator. It is  rm
provides transparency of recurring revenue and expenditure  calculated internally by Schroders to give shareholders and financial  atio
from our operational activities to aid understanding of the  n
analysts general guidance on how our invested assets are 
financial performance of the Group.
performing. The data is aggregated and is intended to provide 
Payout ratio information for comparison to prior reporting periods only. It is not 
The total dividend per share in respect of the year (see note 7 on  intended for clients or potential clients investing in our products. All 
page 121) divided by the pre-exceptional basic earnings per share. calculations for investment performance are made gross of fees with 
the exception of those for which the stated comparator is a net of 
Profit before tax and exceptional items
fees competitor ranking. When a product’s investment performance 
Profit before tax but excluding exceptional items. This presentation 
is disclosed in product or client documentation it is specific to the 
provides transparency of recurring revenue and expenditure 
strategy or product. Performance will either be shown net of fees at 
from our operational activities to aid understanding of the 
the relevant fund share-class level or it will be shown gross of fees 
financial performance of the Group.
with a fee schedule for the strategy supplied.
Ratio of total costs to net income
The calculation includes virtually all applicable assets under 
Total Group costs before exceptional items divided by net 
management that have a complete track record over the one year, 
income before exceptional items (see note 4 on page 119).  
three years and five years reporting periods. Where performance 
A 65% ratio is targeted to ensure costs are aligned with net 
figures are stated to 31 December 2019 they have been restated to 
income, although we recognise that in weaker markets the  
include Wealth Management and Solutions assets in line with the 
ratio may be higher than our long-term target.
five business areas aligned to our strategic priorities. 
Total compensation ratio
Applicable assets under management excludes £32.5 billion of 
Pre-exceptional compensation costs (see note 4 on page 119) 
assets, principally comprising those managed by third parties, hotel 
divided by pre-exceptional net income. By targeting a total 
assets managed by Algonquin and Wealth Management assets held 
compensation ratio of 45% to 49%, depending upon market 
on a custody-only, advisory or execution-only basis.
conditions, we align the interests of shareholders and employees.
Performance is calculated relative to the relevant comparator for 
Active management each investment strategy as summarised below. These fall into one 
The management of investments based on active decision-making  of four categories, the percentages for each of which refer to the 
rather than with the objective of replicating the return of an index. three year calculation: 
AIFMD – For 74% of assets included in the calculation, the comparator is the 
The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive was  relevant benchmark. 
implemented in the UK in July 2013 and is a regulatory framework  – If the relevant comparator is to competitor rankings, the relative 
for alternative investment fund managers, including managers of  position of the fund to its peer group on a like-for-like basis is used 
hedge funds, private equity firms and investment trusts. to calculate performance. This applies to 9% of assets in the 
Alpha calculation. 
Excess return over market returns relative to a market benchmark. – Assets for which the relevant comparator is an absolute return 
Assets under management (AUM) target are measured against that absolute target. This applies to 9% 
The aggregate value of assets managed on behalf of clients. In  of assets in the calculation. 
Wealth Management this includes assets where Schroders provides  – Assets with no specific outperformance objective, including those 
advisory services but the investment decisions are made by the  with a buy and maintain objective, that are measured against a cash 
client as well as assets held in custody where the client  alternative, if applicable. This applies to 8% of assets in the 
independently makes investment decisions, whether it is through  calculation.
direct contact with Schroders or via the Fusion wealth platform.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 189
Shareholder information continued
Glossary
Clients  GCC
Within our Asset Management business we work with institutional  Group Capital Committee.
clients, including pensions funds, insurance companies and 
GMC
sovereign wealth funds, as well as intermediaries, including financial 
Group Management Committee.
advisers, private wealth managers, distributors and online platforms.
GOC
We also provide a range of Wealth Management services to private 
Global Operations Committee.
clients, family offices and charities.
GRC
At times, ‘client’ is used to refer to investors in our funds or 
Group Risk Committee.
strategies, i.e. the end client.
ICAAP
We are increasingly focused on building closer relationships with the 
Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process.
end client, whose money is invested with us, often via an 
intermediary or institution. IFRS
International Financial Reporting Standards.
Compensation cost
Total cost of employee benefits. ILAAP
Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process.
Defined benefit (DB) pension scheme
A pension benefit where the employer has an obligation to provide  Investment capital
participating employees with pension payments that represent a  Capital held in excess of operating requirements. It is managed with 
specified percentage of their salary for each year of service. the aim of achieving a low volatility return. It is mainly held in cash, 
government and government-guaranteed bonds, investment grade 
Defined contribution (DC) pension scheme
corporate bonds and Schroders’ funds. Investment capital is also 
A pension benefit where the employer’s contribution to an 
used to help support the organic development of existing and new 
employee’s pension is measured as, and limited to, a specified 
business strategies and to respond to other investment and growth 
amount, usually a percentage of salary. The value of the ‘pension 
opportunities as they arise, such as acquisitions that will accelerate 
pot’ can go up or down depending on how the investments perform.
the development of the business.
Employee benefit trust
Investment returns
A type of discretionary trust established to hold cash or other assets 
The increase in AUM attributable to investment performance, market 
for the benefit of employees, such as to satisfy share awards.
movements and foreign exchange.
EPS
LGBTQ+
Earnings per share.
Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender and other groups of sexual 
ESG and gender minorities.
Environmental, social and governance.
Liability-driven investment (LDI)
ESG integration A form of investing where the main goal is to gain and maintain 
ESG integration refers to the incorporation of ESG factors into  sufficient assets to meet known liabilities, both current and future. 
investment decision-making with the aim of delivering better  This form of investment is most prominent for defined benefit 
risk-adjusted returns to our clients. For certain businesses acquired  pension schemes.
during the course of 2020 we have not yet integrated ESG factors 
Life Company
into investment decision-making. A small portion of our business for 
Schroder Pension Management Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary, 
which ESG integration is not practicable or possible, for example our 
which provides investment products through a life assurance wrapper.
legacy businesses or investments in the process of or soon to be 
liquidated, and certain joint venture businesses are excluded. MiFID II
The second iteration of the Markets in Financial Instruments 
Family offices
Directive. MiFID II is an EU directive which standardises regulation 
These manage and/or advise on the financial affairs and investments 
for investment services throughout the European Economic Area.
of ultra high net worth individuals or families.
Net income
FCA
A sub-total comprising net operating revenue, net gains on financial 
Financial Conduct Authority of the United Kingdom.
instruments and other income and share of profit of associates and 
Fitch investment management quality rating joint ventures.
A forward-looking, relative assessment of an investment manager’s 
Net new business
investment capabilities and the strength of its operational platform. 
New funds from clients less funds withdrawn by clients. This is 
Ratings have five key pillars: investment process; investment 
also described as net inflows (when positive) or net outflows (when 
resources; risk management; investment performance and the 
negative). New funds and funds withdrawn are calculated as at 
company, including client servicing. Ratings are assigned on a five 
31 December 2020 on the basis of actual funding provided or 
tiered scale from ‘Excellent’ to ‘Weak’. Excellent indicates that the 
withdrawn.
investment manager has extremely strong investment capabilities 
and operational characteristics. Net zero target
A “net zero” target refers to reaching net zero carbon emissions 
FRC
by a selected date and refers to balancing the amount of emitted 
Financial Reporting Council.
greenhouse gases with the equivalent emissions that are either 
GAIA offset or sequestered.
Global Alternative Investor Access.
Net operating revenue
GHG Protocol A sub-total consisting of revenue less cost of sales as defined in note 
Greenhouse gas protocol, a global standardised framework to  2 of the financial statements.
measure and manage greenhouse gas emissions.
Net operating revenue margins
Global Transformation Range Net operating revenue excluding performance fees, net carried 
The Global Transformation Range is a suite of thematic strategies. interest and real estate transaction fees divided by the relevant 
average AUM.
190 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Passive products Seed and co-investment capital 
Products whose stated objective is to replicate the return of an index. Seed capital comprises an initial investment put into a fund or 
strategy by the business to allow it to develop a performance track 
Pillar 1
record before it is marketed to potential clients. Co-investment 
The minimum capital requirements in relation to credit risk, 
comprises an investment made alongside our clients.
operational risk and market risk taken by the Group as principal.
Senior management
Pillar 2
Members of the GMC (including the executive Directors of Schroders 
The requirement for companies to assess the level of additional 
plc), the direct reports of members of the GMC and the direct reports 
capital held against risks not covered in Pillar 1.
one level below that, in each case excluding administrative and other 
Pillar 3  ancillary roles. 
This complements Pillar 1 and Pillar 2 with the aim of improving 
SMCR
market discipline by requiring companies to publish certain details 
Senior Managers and Certification Regime. FCA regulation which 
of their risks, capital and risk management. Schroders’ Pillar 3 
aims to strengthen market integrity by making senior individuals 
disclosures are available at schroders.com/ir.
more accountable for their conduct and competence.
Platforms
Sustainalytics
Platforms in the UK savings market offer a range of investment 
Sustainalytics is a leading ESG research, ratings and data firm that 
products such as unit trusts, Individual Saving Accounts (ISAs), 
supports investors around the world with the development and 
unit-linked life and pension bonds and Self-Invested Personal 
implementation of responsible investment strategies.
Pensions (SIPPs) to facilitate investment in many funds from  S
h
different managers through one portal. SustainEx™  are
SustainEx™ is Schroders’ proprietary measure of the social and  h
PRA environmental impact that a company may create. Based on  old
Prudential Regulation Authority. e
independent data and research, the model combines measures of  r in
PRIIPs both the harm companies can do (for example, through activities like  fo
Packaged Retail Investment and Insurance-based Products. PRIIPs  carbon emissions) and the good they can bring (for example,  rm
a
make up a broad category of financial assets that are regularly  through paying a “living wage”) to produce an aggregate measure of  tio
provided to consumers in the EU. It covers all packaged, publicly  each company’s social and environmental impact. The aim of the  n
marketed financial products that have exposure to underlying  model is to allow our investors to target their ESG investments 
assets, provide a return over time and have an element of risk. effectively by assessing the extent to which companies are in credit 
or deficit having regard to such measures, and the risks they face if 
Principal shareholder group
the social and environmental “costs” they externalise are pushed into 
A number of private trustee companies, a number of individuals and 
their own financial costs.
a charity which, directly or indirectly, are shareholders in Schroders 
plc and are parties to the Relationship Agreement. In aggregate  TCFD 
these parties own 47.93% of the ordinary shares of Schroders plc. The Financial Stability Board Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD) is a market-driven initiative to help investors 
RCA
understand their financial exposure to climate risk and help 
Risk and Control Assessment.
companies disclose this information in a clear and consistent way. 
Regulatory surplus capital
Total equity less the Group’s overall regulatory capital requirement  Total capital requirement
The requirement to hold the sum of Pillar 1 and Pillar 2A capital 
and regulatory deductions, in accordance with the EU Capital 
requirements. Pillar 2A capital requirements are supplementary 
Requirements Regulation as set out in the Group’s Pillar 3 disclosures.
requirements for those risk categories not captured by Pillar 1, 
Schroders Personal Wealth depending on specific circumstances of a company, as set out 
Schroders Personal Wealth (SPW) is a joint venture between Lloyds  by the PRA.
Banking Group and Schroders. It provides personal wealth planning, 
advice and investment management services to clients in the UK. Total dividend per share
Unless otherwise stated, this is the total dividend in respect of the 
Science-based target  year, comprised of the interim dividend and the proposed final 
A science-based target provides a clearly-defined pathway for  dividend. This differs from the IFRS dividend, which is comprised of 
companies to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. The target is  the prior year final and current year interim dividends declared and 
considered ‘science-based’ if it is in line with what the latest climate  paid during the year.
science deems necessary to meet the goals of the Paris Agreement 
– limiting global warming to well-below 2°C above pre-industrial  Total equity
Total assets less total liabilities.
levels and pursuing efforts to limit warming to 1.5°C.
Seed 1  Transfer Agent
A trust company, bank or financial institution that maintains 
All direct greenhouse gas emissions from company facilities and 
investors’ financial records and tracks their account balance.
vehicles from e.g. gas and oil.
Seed 2  UCITS
Undertakings for the Collective Investment in Transferable 
Indirect greenhouse emissions from consumption of purchased 
Securities. The UCITS directive is a regulatory framework of the 
electricity, heat or steam.
European Union that creates a harmonised regime throughout 
Seed 3  Europe for the management and sale of investment funds.
Other indirect emissions, such as the emissions associated with our 
investments, electricity-related activities, waste disposal, business 
travel, employee commuting, employee homeworking etc.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020 191
Shareholder information continued
Glossary
UCITS/AIF MRTs 
Employees deemed to be material risk takers under the UCITS 
Directive or AIFMD.
UK Stewardship Code
A set of principles or guidelines from the Financial Reporting Council 
directed at institutional investors who hold voting rights in United 
Kingdom companies.
UN PRI
The United Nations-supported Principles for Responsible Investment 
Initiative is an international network of investment companies 
working together to implement the six Principles for Responsible 
Investment. Its goal is to understand the implications of 
sustainability and support signatories to incorporate these issues 
into their investment decision making and ownership practices.
Printed by Pureprint Group on FSC® certified paper.
Pureprint Group is an EMAS certified CarbonNeutral® 
Company and its Environmental Management System is 
certified to ISO14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil-based.
This document is printed on Splendorgel Extra White, 
a paper containing virgin fibre sourced from well managed, 
sustainable, FSC® certified forests and other controlled 
sources. The pulp used in this product is bleached using an 
elemental chlorine free (ECF).
Designed and produced by Black Sun plc.
192 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2020