
01
2020 SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT REPORT
ACTING THROUGH
KNOWLEDGE
Our responsible investment journey
SCOR 2020 SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT REPORT
02 03
INTRODUCTION
Despite the unexpected challenges of the Covid-19 pandemic 
and the resulting uncertainties around the world, SCOR sustained 
its momentum in its responsible investment journey. In 2020, 
the Group revised its sustainable investing policy, committing to 
higher standards to both improve the resilience of its invested 
assets portfolio and limit its environmental footprint.
This report presents the Group’s key achievements in 2020, 
as well as its on-going endeavors to improve its investment 
practices. We also highlight the inherent limitations faced by 
Cover image
investors, as sustainability is a wide and evolving topic which is 
Part of the Annapurna Mountain Range 
still in its early stages.
(Nepal) — Rapid climate change in the 
Himalaya region threatens the traditional 
livelihoods of remote mountain  This report was produced in line with the recommendations of 
communities, challenges traditional 
systems of knowledge, and stresses  the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures and 
existing socio-ecological systems. 
complements disclosures addressing Article 173 of the French 
At SCOR, we continuously invest in 
understanding and modeling the climate  Energy Transition Law, available in SCOR’s 2020 Universal 
change-related risks threatening the 
world, taking a dual perspective:  Registration Document.
assessing the impact of climate change on 
our investment portfolio and assessing the 
impact of the portfolio’s performance on 
the environment.
SCOR 2020 SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT REPORT SCOR 2020 SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT REPORT
04 05
TABLE OF CONTENTS
08 GOVERNANCE 16 STRATEGY 22 RISK AND  48 METRICS 
RISK   AND 
MANAGE- TARGETS
MENT
P. 09 —  Role of the Board of Directors P. 17 —  S COR’s investment philosophy P. 23 —   Organization P. 49 —   Metrics
P. 11 —  Group Investment Committee P. 17 —  S COR’s sustainable investing approach P. 23 —  T ools and processes P. 53 —   Targets
P. 11 —  G  roup Corporate Social and Societal  P. 17 —  B  eing a responsible investor P. 28 —   Assessing acute risk on physical assets
Responsibility and Environmental  P. 18 —  C  limate change: the rationale of time  P. 29 —  C  limate stress testing
Sustainability Committee horizons
P. 33 —  D  eforestation: preliminary mapping
P. 11 —  The Sustainable Investing Policy P. 20 —  A  ddressing the double materiality
P. 35 —  R eal estate risk assessment: CRREM
P. 12 —  The role of asset managers P. 20 —   2020 major steps in investment strategy
P. 39 —   Taxonomy
P. 12 —  ESG information P. 21 —   Engagement
P. 42 —  A  ssessing biodiversity footprint: preliminary 
P. 12 —  C  ommunication and spreading knowledge 
works
on sustainability
P. 12 —  Participation in public debate
P. 14 —  P articipation in public initiatives
Contacts  Group Communications Investor relations
Email: media@scor.com  Institutional investors and equity analysts: 
Jérôme Guilbert, Chief Communications Officer ir@scor.com
Tel: +33 (0)1 58 44 82 82 Private investors: actionnaires@scor.com
SCOR 2020 SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT REPORT SCOR 2020 SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT REPORT
0066 07
EDITORIAL
François de Varenne, Chief Executive Officer of  
SCOR Global Investments
A SOLID AND 
SUSTAINABLE 
INVESTOR
I 
n 2020, Covid-19 changed our lives. As a side effect  approved science-based pathways towards realistic interim 
of multiple lockdowns across the world, greenhouse  targets, supporting the race to net zero. In this regard, SCOR 
gas (GHG) emissions have decreased to unprecedented  has committed to reducing the carbon intensity of its corporate 
levels, demonstrating the concrete impact of individual  bond and equity portfolios by 27% by the end of 2024. It will 
and collective choices on the environment. Unexpectedly, the  do this by combining best-in-class selection with active engage-
crisis has also highlighted the urgency of protecting natural  ment with investees, to impact the real economy.
ecosystems, further demonstrating the interconnectedness of  Thanks to its core business as a reinsurer, SCOR has 
all environmental objectives. Thinking about climate change is  reached an outstanding level of maturity on climate change 
no longer possible without considering the impact of bio- that enables it to better address double materiality. Steering 
diversity loss on the environment. As responsible investors, we  investments to deliver on our targets serves both the resilience 
need to look at nature in its entirety. of the portfolio and its impact on the environment. 
Over the past few years, SCOR has demonstrated its  Nevertheless, it is becoming urgent to think beyond climate 
strong commitment to tackling climate change and to consi- mitigation and adaptation, and to encompass all environmen-
dering environmental, social and governance aspects in its  tal challenges.
investment decisions. 2020 was another critical year in SCOR’s  SCOR has signed the Finance for Biodiversity Pledge, with 
sustainable investment journey. Despite financial market  the aim of onboarding biodiversity in its investment decisions 
turmoil and public health uncertainty, SCOR’s determination  and widening its sustainable investing approach over the 
to act for a more sustainable world has not faded. More  coming years. 2020 was an important year for innovation, 
stringent European and French regulation on Sustainable  thanks to key European milestones in Sustainable Finance. 
Finance is about to come into force, supporting SCOR’s ambi- Although much is still at an experimental stage and will require 
tion to be part of the green recovery. Joining the Net-Zero  further development, SCOR is keen to constantly improve its 
Asset Owner Alliance mid-2020 has been a major milestone  knowledge to better understand the challenges and limitations 
and a catalyst for action in this respect. The Alliance is unique  of cutting-edge methodologies. This stimulates our curiosity 
in the way it combines decarbonization and engagement to  and improves our expertise in terms of steering our invest-
impact the real economy. It highlights the need to decarbonize  ments towards a more sustainable future. Sustainable investing 
not just portfolios but the entire economy, aligning the interests  is a key part of our strategy to unlock long-term value while 
of investors and communities. Knowledge sharing among the  limiting negative impacts on ecosystems. Biodiversity is now 
Alliance’s members has speeded up the selection of jointly  at the top of our agenda.
SSCCOORR  22002200  SSUUSSTTAAIINNAABBLLEE  IINNVVEESSTTMMEENNTT  RREEPPOORRTT SCOR 2020 SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT REPORT
0088 09
GOVERNANCE
1.1.  R   OLE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
Environmental Sustainability Committee (CSSRES) 
— SCOR’s Board of Directors has several advisory com- ensures that the Group’s CSR and ESG approaches are 
CHAPTER 01 mittees responsible for preparing its deliberations, assisting it  consistent with its long-term development, and that the 
GOVERNANCE
in its oversight role, and making recommendations in specific  direct and indirect effects of its activities on the environ-
areas, including environmental, social and governance issues.  ment and society are properly integrated into its strategy. 
Three of the Board’s specialized committees are more speci- As such, this committee oversees the execution of the CSR 
fically involved in the supervision of initiatives undertaken in  action plan, including its climate section, which puts the 
the context of the Sustainable Investing Policy and the Climate  Group’s approach in this area into practice on an annual 
Policy and according to the rules defined in the Board’s inter- basis. In addition, this committee is also responsible for 
nal regulations: making proposals to the Board of Directors on how to take 
˃   The Risk Committee examines, on the basis of risk and  social and environmental issues, including climate change 
solvency assessments, the major risks facing the Group on  issues, into account in the Group’s activities and operations.
both the assets and liabilities side of its balance sheet and  ˃   The Compensation and Nomination Committee is 
ensures that the means to monitor and control these risks  charged with drawing up the rules used to calculate va-
have been implemented as far as possible. It examines  riable remuneration payments to executive corporate offi-
strategic risks, including emerging risks, as well as the  cers and ensuring that these rules are in line with the an-
Group’s main technical and financial commitments, which  nual assessment of the performance of executive corporate 
consist of underwriting (Life and Non-Life), reserving  officers, taking the Group’s strategy into account. The 
(Life and Non-Life), market, concentration (assets and  Group’s environmental and social performance, especial-
liabilities), counterparty, asset-liability management, liqui- ly the implementation and the development of SCOR’s 
dity and operating risks, as well as risks arising from  policies with respect to climate change, is one of the per-
changes in prudential regulations. formance conditions associated with these compensation 
˃   The Corporate Social and Societal Responsibility and  instruments.
Frequency of discussions on climate change
Committee Number of times the committee has discussed climate 
change
Batangas (the Philippines) — Batangas is 
one of the Philippines’ most popular tourist 
destinations near Metro Manila. The seas  Risk Committee 3 times
around Batangas are home to more than 
half of the world’s species of coral.
CSSRES 4 times, at each session
SSCCOORR  22002200  SSUUSSTTAAIINNAABBLLEE  IINNVVEESSTTMMEENNTT  RREEPPOORRTT SCOR 2020 SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT REPORT
10 11
GOVERNANCE
For investment purposes, SCOR Global Investments in- initiative scenario provided in their Storm Ahead study and in 
teracts on a quarterly basis with the Group Investment Com- early 2020 based on the DNB scenario.
SUPERVISORY LEVEL BRC Quarterly
mittee to report on the implementation of the investment  ˃  In Q3, SCOR Global Investments presented i) an initial in-
BOARD
Advisors to the board strategy and present the roadmap for the months to come.  troduction on how biodiversity could be rolled out within invest-
Whenever sustainability considerations have a direct impact  ment over the next three years and ii) a divesting strategy from 
Board CSSRES Quarterly
on the investment universe or the expected return on invested  upstream oil and gas to move forward in the journey towards 
assets, they are discussed within this committee.  net-zero.
Sustainability risks on investments may be discussed at the  ˃  In Q4, SCOR Global Investments presented an update on 
Group Risk Committee meetings if they have an impact on  its biodiversity journey to raise awareness and proposed to join 
the risk profile of the invested assets portfolio.  initiatives to move further on biodiversity and start engaging 
MANAGEMENT LEVEL
The sustainable investing strategy is discussed on a quar- with companies around deforestation. SCOR Global Investments 
EXECUTIVE COMMITEE
terly basis at both the Group CSSRES and the Board CSSRES  also presented the Target Setting Protocol ahead of the discussion 
Committee meetings. This includes topics relating to climate  on hard decarbonization targets at Executive Committee level.
change such as stress testing, sustainable investing policy up-
Group Investment Comittee Quarterly Group CSSRES Quarterly GRC Quarterly
dates and the validation of the sustainable investment report. 
It also includes other ESG-related topics such as initiatives to  Setting Sub-Portfolio Targets within the 
improve ESG leadership or new ESG axes to further limit the  NZAOA
adverse impacts of investment decisions. 
SCOR GLOBAL INVESTMENTS After joining the NZAOA, SCOR contributed 
to the design of the Target Setting Protocol. To 
SCOR IP Mandate IC Weekly Group Investment Risk & Sustainability 1.2.   GROUP INVESTMENT COMMITTEE  prepare for commitments on decarbonization 
pathways and to set targets for 2025, SCOR 
Global Investments conducted a road test 
˃   In Q1 2020, SCOR Global Investments also presented 
on several asset classes. The Protocol and its 
the results of the DNB climate risks scenario stress tests 
Local CFOs External Asset Managers Annual due diligence expected targets were presented to the CSSRES 
on SCOR’s invested assets portfolio. The Group Invest-
Committee. Following internal discussions, a 
ment Committee validated SCOR Global Investments’ 
decarbonization target was validated by the 
proposal to join the Net-Zero Asset Owner Alliance 
Group Investment Committee, as part of the 
(NZAOA), with the aim of implementing a strategy for 
investment strategy. The CSSRES Committee 
THE GROUP INVESTMENT    THE GROUP RISK COMMITTEE  SCOR INVESTMENT PARTNERS   net-zero by 2050. 
will be kept informed of the pathway and will 
COMMITTEE MEETS QUARTERLY,  MEETS QUARTERLY, AND:  IMPLEMENTS THE  ˃    In Q2 2020, SCOR Global Investments proposed to the 
oversee its implementation over time.  
Group Investment Committee to take further steps in 
AND: ˃   m  onitors and ensures compliance  SUSTAINABLE INVESTING 
terms of phasing out fossil fuels and moving to a best-in-
˃   d efines portfolio positioning within  in relation to risk appetite and  STRATEGY  class strategy. SCOR Global Investments also presented 
capital management
˃   at hpep lriomvietss  sneot rbmya tthivee s atrnadte tghiecm palatnic  ˃   de  visecnutsss, easn cdl itmheaitre d riirsekcst a imndp eaxcttr oenm e  THE GROUP INVESTMENT RISK  ˃  t Inh eQ d3ra 2ft0 o2f0 t,h teh 2e 0G1r9o Suups Itnavineasbtmlee Inntv Cesotmmemnitt tReee pvoalritd. ated  1.4.  T   HE SUSTAINABLE INVESTING POLICY
exclusions, as well as major 
SCOR’s risk profile amendments to the Sustainable Investing Policy. 
asset reallocations related to risk  & SUSTAINABILITY 
˃    In Q4 2020, SCOR Global Investments proposed to the  — SCOR’s Sustainable Investing Policy complements the 
management – including climate 
DEPARTMENT: Group Executive Committee an investment portfolio de- Group Climate Policy and is part of the Group Investment 
and other sustainability-related risks 
˃   a pproves sustainable investing  THE MANDATE INVESTMENT  ˃     monitors trends in sustainable  carbonization pathway in line with the Target Setting Pro- Guidelines. It sets the principles for the integration of sustain-
initiatives with a direct impact on  COMMITTEE MEETS WEEKLY,  finance tocol of the NZAOA. ability within the investment strategy and is based on the fol-
portfolio allocation AND: ˃    p roposes a sustainable investment  lowing five pillars: 
strategy including initiatives linked  ˃     Building a resilient portfolio thanks to strong risk mana-
˃   a  ssesses the feasibility of the  to climate change and biodiversity  1.3. G   ROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL AND  gement  
sustainable investment strategy 
risks and opportunities SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY AND  ˃    Enhancing sustainable investment decisions with portfo-
THE GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL  bInevfeosrtem seunbtm Ciossmiomni tttoe teh oer G throeu p  ˃   c oordinates the implementation   ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY   lio screening
AND SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITY  Corporate & Social Responsibility  of the sustainable investment  COMMITTEE  ˃    Fostering more sustainable behavior through engagement
strategy across the Group and  ˃    Financing a more sustainable world by selecting thematic 
AND ENVIRONMENTAL  Committee
SUSTAINABILITY (CORPORATE &  ˃   a  pproves its implementation emnasnuaregse rths aotn ebxotearrnda el vaesrsye tin itiative opportunities
Each quarter, SCOR Global Investments presents an up- ˃    Supporting climate awareness among the financial com-
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY)  ˃    r eports on SCOR’s achievements  date of the investment section of the CSR action plan, which  munity
in terms of sustainable 
COMMITTEE MEETS QUARTERLY,  investments includes specific sections on climate stress testing. Special to-
pics are presented separately as necessary. It encompasses all aspects of non-financial risks and op-
AND: 
˃  In Q2, the CSSRES Committee validated the 2019 Sus- portunities and presents the way SCOR intends to consider 
˃    a pproves the sustainable strategy  tainable Investment Report, including disclosures around cli- them in its strategy. It is validated by the Board and reviewed 
for the Group’s investments  mate stress testing performed in 2019 based on the 2° investing  on an ad-hoc basis in line with the sustainable investment agen-
˃   v alidates the action plan 
SCOR 2020 SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT REPORT SCOR 2020 SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT REPORT
1122 13
GOVERNANCE
da. In 2020, several actions were taken to improve SCOR’s  industry consolidation continues, Group Investment Risk & 
Area Data methodology or  Asset class Type of data  Comment
sustainability in its investment strategy:  Sustainability pays specific attention to its data providers and 
provider provided
˃    Regarding exit strategies, the scope on thermal coal was  reassesses its selection on a yearly basis. This may hamper 
extended to all new developers and the threshold was lowe- year-on-year comparability but allows for the most recent in-
ISS ˃  Sovereign bonds Carbon  ˃ C  arbon intensity by revenue: 
red to 10%   novations and the highest level of expertise.
˃  Corporate bonds footprint in tCOe per EUR million of 
˃    SCOR committed to exiting thermal coal in 2030 in EU  ˃  Equity revenu2e or GDP
and OECD countries and in 2040 in the rest of the world ˃  Corporate loans ˃ C  arbon intensity by  
1.7.    COMMUNICATION AND SPREADING 
˃ S C OR implemented additional restrictions applying to  ˃  Real assets loans enterprise value: in tCOe per  
2
upstream oil and gas, allowing only investments in best-in- KNOWLEDGE ON SUSTAINABILITY ˃  Real assets EUR million invested
class issuers.
— SCOR is a reinsurance company providing Property, Ca- ˃  Corporate bonds EU taxonomy  Alignment assessment
SCOR intends to apply restrictions in its investment uni- sualty and Life biometric risk transfer solutions to insurance  ˃  Equity for sustainable 
verse, leveraging the EU taxonomy and taking into account  companies and corporates. As such, premiums remain in its  activities
the need for a just transition. This means that priority is given  ownership until claims need to be paid. SCOR sets its own pre-
to exiting sub-sectors where more sustainable alternatives exist,  ferences for investment decisions in line with its own risk appetite. 
Carbone 4 ˃  Sovereign bonds Implied   Global temperature rise 
but also that support is provided to companies committed to  SCOR issues a sustainable investment report on a yearly  Climate  ˃  Corporate bonds Temperature  associated with the  
transitioning to a low carbon economy. basis, complementing i) regulatory information on sustaina- change ˃  Equity Rise forward-looking GHG of a 
bility under Article 173 of the French bill on Energy Transition  portfolio or entity expressed in a 
and Green Growth available in section six of its Universal  temperature unit typically °C
1.5. T   HE ROLE OF ASSET MANAGERS
Registration Document and ii) its Climate Report, providing 
a holistic view on how the Group tackles climate change in its 
— SCOR has delegated the management of its assets to its  business, investments and operations. 
SCOR P&C ˃  Real assets Physical risk Impact of extreme  
fully owned asset management company, SCOR Investment  Group Investment Risk & Sustainability regularly updates 
weather events expressed 
Partners (SCOR IP), alongside external asset managers.  the SCOR Global Investments business unit, including SCOR 
in EUR million
SCOR’s Sustainable Investing Policy is foundational to its sus- Investment Partners, on its sustainability journey. Employees 
tainable investment strategy. Publicly available and referenced  are also regularly invited to Group Investment Risk & Sustai-
in every investment guideline provided to asset managers, it  nability presentations on how sustainable finance impacts  ACPR   ˃  Sovereign bonds Stress testing:  Impact on assets valuation 
or other ˃  Corporate bonds transition risk in EUR million
forms part of the investment management agreement and en- SCOR’s investment strategy. People from SCOR Global In-
˃  Equity
sures the consistency of the Group’s strategy across its legal  vestments also participate in external conferences on sustai-
entities throughout the world. SCOR relies on the expertise of  nability as panelists or speakers to share their experience on 
its investment managers, who will ultimately select securities  tackling climate change in investments and to foster good cli- CDP ˃  Corporate bonds Deforestation  Companies scores
based on their own ESG processes. SCOR IP plays a predo- mate-related reporting practices. In 2020, SCOR Global In- ˃  Equity risk  
minant role in the integration of ESG criteria in investment  vestments participated in 15 public events on sustainability in  assessment
decisions, given the size of the assets it manages. External asset  France and abroad.
managers are asked to provide their ESG principles and pro- Forest 500 ˃  Corporate bonds Deforestation  Companies scores
cesses during the selection process. Their engagement and  ˃  Equity risk  
capabilities vis à vis ESG are key factors alongside risk mana- 1.8.   PARTICIPATION IN THE PUBLIC  Biodiversity assessment
gement processes. Once selected, the way investment mana- DEBATE
gers factor ESG criteria into investment decisions relating to 
IIcceebbeerrgg  DDaattaa  LLaabb ˃  Corporate bonds Biodiversity  Biodiversity impact  
SCOR’s mandate forms part of the annual due diligence per- — The Group commits to dialogue with regulators and insti- ˃  Equity footprint expressed in km² MSA 
formed by Group Investment Risk & Sustainability. During  tutions, providing support through its internal expertise and  (Mean Species Abundance)
the meetings, updates and in-depth discussions ensure a good  promoting responsible investment. SCOR has been active over 
understanding of the status of the Group in its journey towar- the last two years as a member of the Technical Expert Group 
ds sustainability. Investment managers can also be asked to  on Sustainable Finance at the European Commission, and has  ISS ˃  Sovereign bonds ESG ratings Countries and companies 
provide ESG analyses of issuers to support Group Investment  chaired the Project Task Force on Climate Related Reporting  ˃  Corporate bonds scores
Risk & Sustainability supervisory tasks.  at the European Corporate Reporting Lab @ EFRAG. SCOR  ˃  Equity
As an asset owner, SCOR has ultimate responsibility for  is a member of the Climate and Sustainable Finance Commis-
its portfolio positioning. As such, the Group performs inde- sion at the Autorité des Marchés Financiers, the French secu-
pendent ESG analysis, including climate stress tests on an ag- rities and market authority. The Group also commits to parti- ESG  ˃  Corporate bonds Controversies Controversies analysis
General  ˃  Equity
gregated basis, using its own data providers and methodologies.  cipating in working groups and initiatives led by national and 
data
international professional associations, to foster a better un-
derstanding and implementation of sustainability in investment  RReeppRRiisskk ˃  Sovereign bonds Controversies Systematic screening
1.6.   ESG INFORMATION decisions. SCOR participates in various working groups on  ˃  Corporate bonds
climate scenario analysis and carbon neutrality. At the forefront  ˃  Equity
— The Group relies mainly on information provided by ex- of climate risk thanks to its core business, SCOR is also regu-
tra-financial rating agencies and ESG consulting firms. As  larly invited by regulators to share insights on how it tackles 
climate change in its investment strategy.
SCOR 2020 SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT REPORT SCOR 2020 SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT REPORT
1144 1154
GOVERNANCE
1.9. P   ARTICIPATION IN PUBLIC INITIATIVES
 MARCH 9, 2017   JULY 9, 2019 
The SCOR Foundation hosts a  SCOR releases its 
SCOR’S JOURNEY TOWARD 
seminar on climate risks with the  Sustainable Investing 
Geneva Association Policy
SUSTAINABILITY
 MAY 1, 2015   NOVEMBER 19,    MARCH 21,    APRIL 26,    SEPTEMBER 11,  
 2015   2017   2018   2019 
Denis Kessler co-chairs 
 Environmental and climate commitment  the Extreme Events and  SCOR reaffirms its  SCOR signs the Shift   SCOR expands its  SCOR signs the 
 General commitment    Climate Risk program of  commitment to the  Project’s “Decarbonize  coal divestment  United Nations 
 Health commitment  the Geneva Association management of climate  Europe Manifesto” strategy based on the  Principles for 
 Human rights and diversity commitment risk, announces its  Global Coal Exit List  Responsible 
divestment from all  (GCEL) Investment (PRI)
 JUNE 9, 2015   SEPTEMBER 6, 2017   MAY  
exposure to coal and 
 2020 
The SCOR Foundation  invests EUR 930 million in  SCOR announces further  
 DECEMBER 1,  
hosts a seminar on  low-carbon projects environmental sustainability  Net-Zero Asset 
 FEBRUARY 21,  
 2018 
Climate Risks initiatives Owner Alliance
 2007 
SCOR commits to 
SCOR is leading the   DECEMBER 11, 2017 
 NOVEMBER 26,   protecting    DECEMBER  
debate on the financial 
 2015  SCOR reaffirms its commitment to  World Heritage Sites  2020 
protection of developing 
the environment at the One Planet 
countries from natural  SCOR commits to the first  Finance for 
Summit and signs the second 
catastrophe risks French climate pledge Biodiversity 
French Climate pledge
pledge 
2003 2007 2008 2012 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
 JUNE 3, 2003   JUNE 25, 2012   NOVEMBER 1,  
 2016 
SCOR joins the  SCOR is a founding signatory of the 
Global Compact  Principles for Sustainable Insurance  SCOR, a member of the 
initiative (PSI) CRO Forum Emerging 
Risks Initiative, publishes 
a report on water risks
 MAY 31, 2017   SEPTEMBER 26,  
 2018 
SCOR sponsors a global 
statement supporting stronger  SCOR is a founding 
regulation around tobacco  signatory of the 
control tobacco-free finance 
pledge
 FEBRUARY 20, 2008 
 NOVEMBER 7, 2016 
SCOR (Paris office)  
SCOR signs a global  SCOR is a member of Novethic’s "Cercle des Institutionnels",  
commits to a policy  
charter on professional  a French institutional investment community dedicated to supporting 
of anti-discrimination and to male/ investors who wish to strengthen their commitment to sustainable 
equality between women 
female equality among its staff finance.
and men www novethic fr/cercle desinstitutionnels.html
SSCCOORR  22002200  SSUUSSTTAAIINNAABBLLEE  IINNVVEESSTTMMEENNTT  RREEPPOORRTT SSCCOORR  22002200  SSUUSSTTAAIINNAABBLLEE  IINNVVEESSTTMMEENNTT  RREEPPOORRTT
1166 17
STRATEGY
  around the five pillars of its Sustainable Investing Policy, which 
2.1.   SCOR’S INVESTMENT PHILOSOPHY
form a consistent and robust framework for the strategy. The 
— As far as invested assets are concerned, SCOR’s primary  Group addresses both the resilience of its invested assets vis à 
investment objective is to generate recurring financial income  vis ESG risks and the positive and adverse environmental and 
in accordance with the Group’s risk appetite framework, and  social impacts of its portfolio. The current state of play of sus-
to ensure that the Group: tainability is evolving very fast, advocating for flexibility and 
i. is always able to meet its claims and expense payment obli- constant improvement in terms of approach, methodologies 
gations, and and tools. 
ii. creates value for its shareholders in line with the objectives 
set out in the strategic plan, while:
2.3. B   EING A RESPONSIBLE INVESTOR
   i. preserving the Group’s liquidity and level of solvency,
   ii. protecting its capital,
   iii. allowing the Group to operate on a day-to-day basis as 
A strong risk management culture
well as over the long term, and
   iv. contributing to the welfare and resilience of societies, in  — Thanks to its core business as a reinsurer, SCOR has deve-
CHAPTER 02 compliance with the investment regulations, risk appetites  loped a strong risk culture across the entire Group. Risk ma-
STRATEGY
and regulatory capital requirements (level of capital and type  nagement includes sustainability in terms of non-financial risks 
of admissible assets) of the Group’s legal entities, and with  and opportunities, as well as potential impacts of the portfolio 
Group-wide and local investment guidelines. on ecosystems. Environmental, social and governance criteria 
are embedded in investment decisions and monitored closely 
The bulk of the invested assets portfolio backs SCOR’s  during the investment life cycle. SCOR considers E, S and G 
liabilities, i.e. technical reserves for Life and P&C reinsurance.  criteria as potential early signals of future risks. As such, is-
In view of business constraints, investments are mainly in li- suers’ extra-financial ratings are screened within risk manage-
quid, high-quality fixed income assets in order to ensure  ment processes to better anticipate potential deterioration of 
Group solvency in the event of large claims. ALM (Asset and  credit quality and environmental and social impacts. Contro-
Liability Management) is a critical factor in the selection of  versial issues are also analyzed to detect potentially at-risk po-
assets used to cover SCOR’s technical liabilities. In addition,  sitions at an early stage. Identifying risks – financial as well as 
the Group applies strict congruency principles, which ensures  non-financial – and managing them to increase the resilience 
that cash is always invested in the same currency as under- of the portfolio, serves the investment strategy and the long-
writing commitments.  term profitability of SCOR.
Asset allocation is the backbone of SCOR’s investment 
strategy. Limits by asset classes and by credit quality are stated 
Embedding new trends and opportunities
in the Group’s Investment Guidelines, which are reviewed at 
least once a year and approved by the SCOR SE Board of  — Monitoring new trends is critical to maintain momentum 
Directors. Those Guidelines encompass the Sustainable In- and detect not only new risks but also new opportunities. 
vesting Policy. SCOR is involved in several initiatives at national, European 
Over the last few years and acting as a responsible investor,  and international levels to stay connected with innovation 
SCOR has developed a robust strategy to assess climate-related  around sustainable finance and non-financial corporate repor-
risks and opportunities alongside other non-financial criteria,  ting. Detecting opportunities is part of the Group’s strategy to 
in line with two objectives:  build a resilient portfolio and create long-term value. As an 
˃    To protect the value of its invested assets against non-fi- example, SCOR has developed a unique real estate business 
nancial risk factors as well as financial risks model based on buying “brown” buildings in core locations to 
Omo Valley (Ethiopia) — A UNESCO World  ˃    To benefit from opportunities stemming from the transi- retrofit them following the highest environmental and energy 
Heritage Site since 1980, the Omo Valley is  tion to a sustainable economy efficiency standards, before selling them to externalize the va-
home to diverse ecosystems including 
lue created. Over the last 10 years, SCOR has also built a 
grasslands, volcanic outcrops, and one of 
the few remaining pristine riverine forests in  2.2.   SCOR’S SUSTAINABLE INVESTING   material bucket of infrastructure debt and real estate debt fi-
Africa. The valley is inhabited by semi- APPROACH nancing the transition to a low carbon economy. This “green 
nomadic tribes, including the Hamar and  bucket” has been built leveraging SCOR Investment Partners’ 
Karo people.
— SCOR’s sustainable investing approach is structured  historical expertise in real estate and debt investments.   
SSCCOORR  22002200  SSUUSSTTAAIINNAABBLLEE  IINNVVEESSTTMMEENNTT  RREEPPOORRTT SCOR 2020 SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT REPORT
18 19
STRATEGY
CLIMATE TRANSITION RISK 
2.4.   CLIMATE CHANGE:  
SCOR also invests in insurance-linked securities (ILS) that 
Short term  Medium  Long term Risk  SCOR mitigation 
contribute to the resilience of communities following extreme  THE RATIONALE OF TIME HORIZONS
(below 2 years) term (above 5 years) management /  action 
events. Unlike the physical risks borne by direct investments,  (2 to 5  impact 
with ILS, SCOR is compensated for exposing itself to selected  — Time horizons are important drivers of decisions and must  years) assessment
physical risks, which can be either climate-driven like storms  align with the objectives of the strategy. The duration of in-
or other types of extreme events like earthquakes. As there is  vested assets is relatively short, around four years, in line with 
Within investments, this risk mainly relates to carbon intensive sectors which may be hit by new regulation. It can also relate to 
limited correlation between financial market developments and  SCOR’s reinsurance business. This enables SCOR to increase 
more stringent regulation and reputation risk linked to deforestation. Risks may differ between investments in equities and in 
the occurrence of natural catastrophes, this strategy provides  the resilience of the portfolio against long-term adverse trends. 
bonds as equity prices may never recover whereas bonds may be redeemed at par at maturity. 
the invested assets portfolio with diversification and increases  Bonds represent the bulk of the portfolio. Time horizons can 
For SCOR the risk is on corporate bonds given the low appetite of the Group for investments in equities.
its resilience. The Group leverages SCOR Investment Partners’  be split into three buckets: less than two years, two to five years 
longstanding performance in managing this asset class. and above five years. We can consider that below two years, the 
Coal Oil Automotive Models and  Divest from highest emitters or 
risk is mainly a default risk as the sensitivity of bonds is rela-
Coal power Gas simulations sectors with alternative 
tively small. Above five years, uncertainties – mainly around 
Portfolio activities 
policy responses for transition risks and climate evolution for 
monitoring Implement a best in class 
physical risks – may lead to higher volatility in asset valuation. Cement
strategy and engage compa-
Steel
Footprinting nies to foster an orderly 
Gas power
transition
Set decarbonization pathways
Climate risks and opportunities Carbon Limit exposures to most 
Intensity carbon intensive sectors and 
CLIMATE PHYSICAL RISK  divest from laggards to limit 
market downside
Short term  Medium  Long term Risk  SCOR mitigation 
(below 2 years) term (above 5 years) management /  action 
Real estate CRREM Certification
(2 to 5  impact 
  Retrofit
years) assessment
Within investments, physical risk relates to exposures to climate-related extreme events (acute) or to global trends due to climate 
change (chronic)
Agri Screening of the  Joining initiatives to engage 
food portfolio with companies
Defores-
Directly: Related to investments in physical assets  Models and  Location  Focusing  Personal  Finance for biodiversity
tation
(buildings and real estate debt, infrastructure debt) simulations  of  on  care /  CDP forest champion
Assessment of  invest- deforestation risk  Cosmetics
climate risk  ments as a mitigation 
performed  action 
internally using  to climate-
Acute property cat  change risks CLIMATE-RELATED OPPORTUNITIES
models
Short term  Medium to long term Assessment SCOR 
(below 2 years) (above 2 years) response
Indirectly: Related to corporate exposures  Models and 
Companies in which SCOR invests may suffer from  simulations: 
climate-related extreme events depending on their  portfolio 
Insurance linked  Diversification  Selection of perils / geography
geographical locations monitoring Physical
securities effect
The business models  Models and  Focusing 
Green bonds Potential new technologies  Internal taxonomy 7.3% of the portfolio invested 
of companies in  simulations:  on 
Solar, wind   providing diversification to the  Leverage the  in green investments as of the 
which SCOR invests  portfolio  deforestation risk 
(corporate bonds,  invested assets portfolio   AOA financing  end of 2020
may suffer from  monitoring as a mitigation 
infrastructure debt) (including carbon sinking  transition 
Chronic major climate-related  action  Transi- Energy efficiency  solutions and clean energies) initiatives
trends (increase of  to climate- tion (direct real estate and 
sea level, droughts…) change risks
real estate debt)
SCOR 2020 SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT REPORT SCOR 2020 SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT REPORT
20 21
STRATEGY
2.5.   ADDRESSING DOUBLE MATERIALITY targets are expected for publicly traded corporate bonds  the limited amount of its invested assets (circa EUR 20 billion), 
Net-Zero Asset Owner Alliance:  and listed equities, as well as real estate for investment  the Group favors collaborative initiatives rather than individual 
— When considering environmental, social and governance  impacting the real economy purposes when possible. Other asset classes will be pro- dialogue. 
criteria in its investment strategy, SCOR believes that materia- gressively covered over time. Sovereign, supranational and  SCOR also fosters dialogue with its external asset mana-
The Net-Zero Asset Owner 
lity is key to both assess potential risks and identify the best  agency bonds are expected in 2021. gers, mainly during the yearly due diligence monitoring pro-
Alliance provides a unique 
opportunities. Protecting the portfolio from downside effects  ˃    Sector decarbonization: The Alliance has used the One  cesses. This is an opportunity to give an in-depth explanation 
framework for investors to design, 
linked to non-financial risks, and particularly climate-related  Earth Climate Model produced by the University of Tech- of the philosophy underpinning the Sustainable Investing 
implement and report on their 
adverse impacts, is at the heart of SCOR’s investment risk  nology Sydney (UTS) to set decarbonization objectives  Policy and to engage in fruitful dialogue on the way investment 
decarbonization strategy. The 
management. Resilience protects the value of assets against  for the highest emitting sectors. managers consider SCOR’s preferences in their investment 
science-based Target Setting 
both transition and physical risks. These two risks move in  ˃    Members are strongly encouraged to develop financing  decisions to ensure alignment between investment managers’ 
Protocol provides investors with 
opposite directions, as the faster the transition, the greater the  solutions to support the transition to a low carbon eco- calibration tools and SCOR’s investment strategy. Compliance 
a credible set of assumptions 
possibility of containing global warming. However, this only  nomy and are invited to set targets on initiatives or contri- ensures that restrictions are correctly coded in their systems. 
supported by robust academic 
works to the extent that transition occurs early enough and in  butions to foster new solutions. Best-in-class strategies are discussed and detailed to ensure 
research. It enables them to 
an orderly enough manner. Otherwise, transition damage –  they are based on the same understanding and criteria. 
combine portfolio targets, sector 
mainly in the form of stranded assets – and significant in- Several simulations have been performed since summer 2020 
targets and engagement targets 
creases in the severity and/or frequency of climate-related  to road test decarbonization pathways and select the most re-
to ensure the actual translation of 
extreme events, may both hit the value of investment portfolios.  levant one to address investment financial constraints, risk li-
investment decisions into the real 
In order to improve longer-term resilience, it is crucial to also  mits, and impact on the real economy. Fully and systematical-
economy. Calling for an enlarged 
address the inside-out effects of investment decisions. By doing  ly exiting the highest emitting sectors is not compatible with 
investment universe in terms of 
this, SCOR actively contributes to a faster transition and, in  engagement with the companies operating in those sectors that 
transition solutions complements 
return, protects its portfolio against physical damage over a  most need to transition to a low carbon economy. Setting tar-
the “toolkit” for designing a 
much longer time horizon. This loopback effect drives back  gets means designing the right balance between fast decarbo-
net-zero world. The Protocol 
the long-term horizon within shorter-term investment deci- nization and engagement results. This also aligns with SCOR’s 
provides a collective response 
sions.  principles set out in its Sustainable Investing Policy, to apply 
from investors and a relevant 
This has led SCOR to make an early exit from some sec- a balanced approach between enhancing access to develop-
benchmark to support decision 
tors that are not compatible with the Paris Agreement, with the  ment and reducing CO emissions.
making in the near future. As such,  2
Group extending its divestment from thermal coal in 2020 as 
it brings the long-term vision of a 
part of its strategic plan. The Group has also taken additional 
net-zero world back into the time  Finance for Biodiversity pledge
steps to better impact the real economy. This includes joining 
horizon of investment decisions.
engagement initiatives and developing a best-in-class strategy  — Carbon sinking contributes to climate change mitigation 
initially applicable to upstream oil and gas companies.  The pathway that investees follow  and SCOR recognizes the need to better consider biodiversity 
in their decarbonization journey  when tackling climate change. In 2020, SCOR signed the Fi-
is a critical element of investors’  nance for Biodiversity pledge and became a member of the 
2.6. M   AJOR STEPS IN SCOR’S INVESTMENT 
success in their attempts to align  CDP Forest Champion initiative. The Group is also an obser-
STRATEGY IN 2020 their portfolios with the Paris  ver of the TNFD initiative. Leveraging its approach on cli-
Agreement. mate-related topics, the Group strives to better understand 
— In 2020, SCOR accelerated its investment journey toward  biodiversity risks and opportunities. Preliminary discussions 
sustainability:  have begun at Executive Committee and Board levels to in-
˃ S C OR committed to exiting thermal coal by 2030 in  crease awareness and develop an action plan to address de-
the EU and OECD, and by 2040 in the rest of the world forestation risks as an initial step to onboarding biodiversity.
˃  SC  OR decided to apply a best-in-class strategy when  The Net-Zero Asset Owner Alliance invites all members 
investing in upstream oil and gas, limiting its investments  to set targets for the end of 2024 based on 2019 portfolio 
2.7.   ENGAGEMENT
to companies with credible transition pathways towards a  positioning, called the “baseline”. 
low carbon economy ˃     Engagement targets are mandatory as the Alliance 
˃     SCOR decided to increase its dialogue with investees and  considers dialogue to be the most powerful tool to impact  — SCOR intends to contribute to supporting a more sustai-
joined several initiatives  the real economy. However, this needs to be combined  nable world. This will be based on selecting investments but 
with decarbonization targets to ensure that investors ac- also on engaging in fruitful dialogue with companies to foster 
tually deliver on the commitments they have made. actions towards more sustainable business models. Despite the 
Net-Zero Asset Owner Alliance London office / United Kingdom – Certified BREEAM
˃    Po  rtfolio decarbonization: Using IPCC P1 to P3  Covid-19 environment, which has made regular processes 
— In May 2020, SCOR joined the Net-Zero Asset Owner  pathways, the Alliance has concluded that investors should  more complex, SCOR exercised most of its voting rights in 
Alliance. This initiative aims to support asset owners in their  set an interim target of decarbonization in the range of  2020. For all resolutions, the Group followed the recommen-
commitment to net-zero portfolios by 2050.  -16% to -29% by the end of 2024, to align with a carbon  dations of its Glass Lewis proxy.
budget compatible with net-zero by 2050. Each member  Beyond voting and exercising its shareholder’s duties, 
sets its own targets depending on its portfolio sector mix  SCOR has decided to join several initiatives for efficient enga-
and the efforts already made prior to the baseline. Initially,  gement. Given its low appetite for equities as an asset class and 
SCOR 2020 SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT REPORT SCOR 2020 SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT REPORT
2222 23
RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT
3.1.   ORGANIZATION 
of direct real estate investments with 2°C and 1.5°C 
pathways. It enables investors to assess the risk of write-
— Group Investment Risk & Sustainability encompasses fi- downs due to changes in market regulations and consumer 
nancial risks, non-financial risks and the impacts of investment  behavior, depending on current levels of consumption 
decisions. It monitors portfolio positioning and ensures that  linked to national determined contributions. Limited to the 
this complies with the risk limits set globally by the Group as  EU, it works well with SCOR’s real estate investment port-
part of its risk management framework. Four people are in  folio, which is mainly located in France. However, as there 
charge of sustainability, analyzing risks, impacts and opportu- is currently a lack of consumption data, Group Investment 
nities. Risk & Sustainability has focused its analysis on real estate 
for own use located in Europe, representing around EUR 
  625 million. About one quarter of SCOR’s operating real 
CHAPTER 03 3.2.   TOOLS AND PROCESSES  estate is located outside of Europe and cannot be conside-
RISK AND 
red in this first assessment. 
— Group Investment Risk & Sustainability has developed a 
robust risk management toolkit to address both financial and  Scenario / stress testing: for liquid and listed securities 
RISK  non-financial risks as well as double materiality. The depart- – usually government and corporate bonds as well as equities 
ment uses different approaches, depending on the availability  – stress tests have been developed based on IPCC or IEA cli-
of data and the maturity of methodologies. Some are qualita- mate scenarios. They are designed to translate the conse-
tive, others are more quantitative. As maturity evolves and  quences of “temperature scenarios” into macro-economic 
MANAGEMENT
methodologies become more robust, Group Investment Risk  variables, enabling investors to project the value of investment 
& Sustainability improves its awareness and understanding of  portfolios in a certain time-horizon and under certain rate, 
sustainability issues and enhances internal expertise. Partne- credit spread and equity level assumptions. The higher the 
ring with external data providers and consulting firms speeds  temperature scenario, the higher the physical risk. The lower 
up the journey from awareness to understanding and decision  the temperature scenario, the higher the transition risk. SCOR 
making. As we push the envelope to explore unknown territo- recognizes the limitations of this approach as the superposition 
ry, we often start with exploratory and very preliminary results  of assumptions (e.g. climate scenarios, NDC realization, 
that may not be robust enough to take sound investment de- macroeconomic consequences, expected positioning of the 
cisions. However, it helps the Group fine-tune its approach  portfolio in the future, mitigation actions, etc.) may limit 
and better anticipate the next challenges. conclusions. However, SCOR sees a lot of benefits in running 
these scenarios. It raises awareness internally at every level of 
the company, from the Group Investment Risk & Sustainabi-
Models and simulations
lity teams to the Executive and Board Committees. It fosters 
— Two main quantitative tools are used to assess climate-  fruitful discussions on the level of maturity and demonstrates 
related risks.  constant improvement and involvement on the topic. It speeds 
˃      Nat cat modeling tools: the natural catastrophe modeling  up processes when data and methodologies become robust 
tool is SCOR’s proprietary tool developed internally for  enough to start using the results to amend the Sustainable 
pricing natural catastrophe business. Based on scenarios  Investing Policy and drill it down into the investment strategy. 
validated by the Group’s modeling teams, this model esti- The transition from experimental to usable information beco-
mates potential losses from natural catastrophes. It enables  mes smoother with experience and the comparison of results 
the teams to calculate damage rates which provide esti- under different scenarios. In 2020, SCOR ran the stress tests 
mates of the potential losses physical assets may suffer in  proposed by the French insurance regulator (Autorité de 
the event of different perils such as Japanese earthquakes,  Contrôle Prudentiel et de Resolution) on its invested assets port-
European wind, U.S. hurricanes, etc. The intensity and  folio. The simulations related to transition risks on government 
Wuling Mountains (China) — Running from 
frequency of perils are provided by zip codes, facilitating  and corporate bonds as well as the equity portfolio. Extensive 
eastern Guizhou to western Hunan, the 
Wuling Mountain range was designated a  a granular assessment of the risks borne by each physical  results and comparisons with previous exercises are shown in 
UNESCO Biosphere Reserve in 1986.  asset on the portfolio.  section 3.4.
Its Fanjingshan Mountain became a World  ˃     CRREM: the Carbon Risk Real Estate Monitor is a tool 
Heritage Site in 2018. 
using science-based decarbonization pathways aligned 
with the Paris Agreement to measure the (mis)alignment 
SSCCOORR  22002200  SSUUSSTTAAIINNAABBLLEE  IINNVVEESSTTMMEENNTT  RREEPPOORRTT SCOR 2020 SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT REPORT
24 25
RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT
Foot-printing Risk management process
are likely to be less exposed to environmental risks, and the  using the two materiality lenses, and when considered material, 
— Foot-printing is an attempt to assess the “inside out” impact  “Do No Significant Harm” factor ensures minimum safe- — SCOR Global Investments strives to actively follow sustai- they enter the double process of risk management and impact 
of investments. It can be also considered as a preliminary as- guards in the sense that addressing one environmental objec- nability trends on investments by constantly monitoring ini- assessment. Depending on the maturity of methodologies and 
sessment of future risks, as negative impacts may in turn harm  tive is compatible with the protection of environment as a  tiatives and news-flow and stimulating discussions with peers,  availability of data, the results can lead to internal discussions, 
the portfolio over a longer time horizon.  whole. Applying the taxonomy to investment portfolios pro- regulators, professional associations. New trends are analyzed  or amendments to the investment strategy.
˃      Carbon footprint: Despite many attempts to foster trans- vides a robust assessment of the opportunities provided by the 
parency and comparability, carbon foot-printing is a com- transition to a sustainable economic model.
plex exercise as it relies on a large amount of data, much  ESG rating and controversies: Sustainability encom-
of which is either unavailable or not robust. When it relates  passes many aspects and climate change is just one broad topic 
to past information on GHG emissions, data may be cri- among others that need to be considered. SCOR relies on data 
ticized for being backward-looking. When trying to assess  providers for ESG ratings on most liquid asset classes. It pro-
forward looking foot-printing, for example for implicit  vides additional information on the potential adverse impact 
temperature rise, data may be based on assumptions of a  of its investments. Controversies complement individual scree- Remote = Light monitoring Material
company’s future behavior or pathway, with all the sur- ning and contribute to a more robust monitoring of positions 
rounding uncertainties. There is no ideal metric nor solu- within the portfolio. They can also support decisions to ban a 
tion, but this should not prevent investors from acting to  specific issuer. 
New trend Screening
better align their investment portfolios.  The integration of ESG criteria is measured primarily by 
Emerging topic Materiality assessment
assessing the quality of the asset portfolio. Given the extremely 
Combining both carbon footprint and implicit tempera- high level of diversification of its investments, the Group works 
ture rise gives an indication of how a company is engaged in  with the independent, non-financial ratings agency ISS-ESG 
its transition to a low carbon economy and how it actually  to assess its portfolio’s standard instruments. The agency as-
Non-financial materiality Financial materiality
delivers on its own targets. Tracking both backward and  sesses mainly government bonds, corporate bonds and listed 
= Adverse impact = Financial risks
forward-looking information helps investors to select best-in- equities. For debt instruments, particularly infrastructure and 
class companies and provides a benchmark by which to regu- real estate debt, the Group relies on the expertise of its subsi-
larly reassess their progress.  diary SCOR IP, a recognized leader in the European debt ins-
˃      Biodiversity footprint: Assessing the impact of invest- trument management industry. Issuers with the lowest ratings 
ments on biodiversity requires natural capital indicators  may be on a watchlist, and investment managers may be asked  ESG rating controversies
and meaningful methodologies. Several approaches to  to provide the rationale for selecting or keeping the position. 
measure impacts and dependencies on ecosystem services  SCOR does not apply systematic exclusions based only on 
and biodiversity are being developed. For the time being,  ESG rating but favors a pragmatic approach. The Group aims 
no standard has emerged because of the complexity of the  to reconcile risk control with profitability and solvency targets. 
MODELS  
topic: dependencies on nature are not the same for diffe- Like all reinsurers operating in multiple jurisdictions, SCOR 
AND SIMULATIONS
rent sectors and hence for different companies. Moreover,  is subject to multiple regulatory and business constraints. The 
each ecosystem is sensitive to different pressures.  main growth drivers are in Asia, where national law often re-
FOOTPRINT
quires that assets be owned and held locally. In those locations, 
to optimize its capital allocation, the Group focuses primarily  PORTFOLIO MONITORING
Portfolio screening
on its core business and often refrains from allocating capital 
— Portfolio screening is useful as a first attempt to assess the  to market risks. Investments in those countries are strictly de-
materiality of a nascent topic. Group Investment Risk & Sus- signed to back liabilities and address ALM constraints. Conse-
tainability usually uses it on a top-down basis, isolating sectors  quently, the bulk of the portfolio is invested in government 
that may be at risk for a specific sustainability topic. Such  bonds in the riskiest countries. This asset class has been 
ACTION ACTION
analysis enables Group Investment Risk & Sustainability to  growing steadily in line with the expansion of SCOR’s Asian 
Reduction targets / 
assess how much of the portfolio may be at risk. It needs to be  business. At the same time, the Group is mindful of any local  Risk limits / 
 Investment restrictions
complemented by a bottom-up approach, as non-financial  initiatives, especially on sovereign green bonds.  Investment restrictions
risks may be mitigated at company level. This approach has  Sustainability is still evolving and there is no “one size fits 
been used in the past to try to assess how much of the corpo- all” type of assessment. Assessing and managing sustainability 
rate bonds and equity portfolio could be exposed to carbon  risk is a combination of these different tools and methodolo-
pricing transition risk. It was tested again in 2020 to try to  gies, and the selection of the most relevant risk / impact assess-
assess the materiality of deforestation risk within SCOR’s in- ment approach depends on maturity and materiality. There is  Engagement
vestment portfolio.  no one single holistic way of tackling sustainability within in-
Taxonomy: As a member of the European Commission’s  vestment, and the many dimensions of sustainability deserve 
Technical Expert Group on Sustainable Finance, SCOR was  agility, reactivity and adaptability. As the robustness of tools 
involved in designing the EU Taxonomy for Sustainable Acti- increases and makes their output more reliable, they provide 
vities, and firmly believes in the benefits of using this screening  better material for internal discussions, raising awareness, risk 
criteria. Activities falling within the framework of the taxonomy  management and investment decision support.
SCOR 2020 SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT REPORT SCOR 2020 SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT REPORT
26 27
RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT
The outcomes of the process can be summarized as follows: Figure1.
Risk /   Impact  Asset  % of coverage  
Opportunities  assessment classes of related asset 
assessment classes 
Nat cat  Climate physical  SCOR’s physical  10%
modeling tool risk assets
CRREM Climate transition  SCOR’s real estate  Real estate for own 
Models risk for own use use – Experimental
and 
simulations
ECONOMY ECONOMY
Climate stress  Climate transition  Government bonds  84%
testing risk Corporate bonds
Climate physical  Listed equities
risk
Carbon  Climate transition  Government bonds  84% 
intensity risks Corporate bonds (on enterprise
Listed equities  value)
Corporate and 
leverage loans SOCIETY SOCIETY
Implied  Climate transition  Pathway to reach  89%
temperature  risk carbon neutrality by 
rise (ITR) 2050 including interim 
targets by 2025
Foot printing
Biodiversity Transition risk Experimental
Taxonomy Resilience of  Utilities Not relevant –  BIOSPHERE BIOSPHERE
activities Experimental
Biodiversity Deforestation risk Corporate bonds
Listed equities
Portfolio 
screening
ESG rating Identify most  Limiting adverse  All invested assets 77%
critical positions  impacts
for monitoring Enhancing positive 
impacts
Controversies Liquid assets Not relevant
Source – Stockholm Resilience Centre: This graph shows the links between SDGs and the dependency of societies on the biosphere. By 
contributing to the achievement of SDGs 6, 13, 14 and 15, SCOR supports the wellbeing of the biosphere and therefore the sustainable 
development of societies. 
SCOR 2020 SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT REPORT SCOR 2020 SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT REPORT
28 29
RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT
3.3. A   SSESSING ACUTE RISK ON PHYSICAL  modeling teams, this model estimates potential losses from  Given the portfolio profile, SCOR has calculated the risk  tential losses and is not taken into account by SCOR’s model. 
ASSETS natural catastrophes. Depending on the geographical location  exposure of storms in Europe, the most significant climatic  The results are shown in the graphs below. As in previous 
of the investments, the model calculates damage rates, which  event. To date, the metric remains highly approximate: one  years, the physical asset portfolio benefits from its geographi-
— SCOR uses internal modeling capabilities to assess “acute”  provide estimates of the potential losses that these investments  limitation is that the climate models underpinning SCOR’s  cal location, mainly in Paris for direct real estate investment 
physical risks which could affect its portfolio of real estate debt,  may suffer in the event of a natural catastrophe. The modeling  modeling are based on historical data rather than a forward- and in Europe for real estate and infrastructure debt invest-
infrastructure debt and direct real estate investments: 82% of  is run at the highest level of granularity available to ensure  looking view of climate change impacts on extreme events. The  ments. Its resilience to the risk of extreme climate events is 
the real estate and the real estate and infrastructure debt port- maximum accuracy of the results. Seventy-four percent of the  path of climate change will depend on the actions taken by  reinforced by a very selective investment process. Thus, the 
folio is located in France. The “acute” physical risks are as- portfolio feeds into the model at postcode level and some po- governments and their willingness to deliver on their National  loss occurring once every 100 years (EUR 3 million) remains 
sessed using SCOR’s internal model for simulating natural  sitions are even modeled at street address level. Determined Contributions. Another limitation is the insurance  very modest compared with the size of the investments 
catastrophes. Based on scenarios validated by the Group’s  coverage of physical assets, which works as a mitigant of po- (EUR 2 billion).
Breakdown by country Granularity in the modeling tool Euro wind: breakdown by asset class Euro wind: breakdown by country
(in EUR millions) (in EUR millions)
Direcet straetale Infrasdtreubtcture Real deestbatte All pahsyssietcsal France NetherlanUdKs GermanyLuxemboDuerngmark
3.5 3.5
3.0 3.0
2.5 2.5
2.0 2.0
1.5 1.5
1.0 1.0
3.1%
ES DE Street address 0.5 0.5
17.5% 0.0 0.0
LU GB City
0.5%
FR NL State/Province
77.7%
SG DK Postcode
1.2%
IT High-res location block
3.4.   CLIMATE STRESS TESTING
whereas physical damage may increase over time with in-
— Building a resilient portfolio is part of SCOR’s sustainable  creases in temperature. In principle, the faster the transition, 
investment journey. Over the last few years, the Group has  the higher the transition risk, but this should efficiently de-
played an active role in numerous working groups and initia- crease the risk of reaching the tipping point in global warming 
tives aiming to better understand the potential impact of cli- and limit the damage of physical risks over a longer-term ho-
mate risks on investment portfolios. Stress tests, usually consi- rizon. Conversely, too slow a transition will limit potential 
dered “what if” scenarios, are helpful to better understand the  “stranded assets”, but temperature is likely to rise far above 
factors driving change in valuations and to derive potential  2°C, with possible tremendous impacts on the frequency and 
mitigation measures to increase resilience. When considering  magnitude of extreme climate events. The worst scenario 
climate change risks on invested assets, SCOR considers diffe- would be a late and disorderly transition that comes too late to 
rent scenarios and time horizons depending on the risk: tran- contain global warming and too suddenly to allow for a pro-
sition risks may occur over a relatively short time horizon,  gressive adaptation of business models.
SCOR 2020 SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT REPORT SCOR 2020 SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT REPORT
30 31
RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT
The graph below from the Network for Greening the Financial System summarizes the various combinations.
Scenario  2°ii De Netherlands Bank ACPR
provider
Figure 2. Source NGFS Transition risk Physical risk Transition risk Transition risk
Below 2° scenario (EIA  IPCC 8.5 for full  Policy shock / Technology  A scenario of a swift and 
Strength of response
B2DS) (Too late too  damages scenario  shock / Double shock / abrupt transition
Based on whether climate targets are met
sudden) (chronic and acute)  Confidence shock An orderly transition 
and S&P’s ‘‘The heat is  scenario or reference 
Climate 
on’’ report for weather  scenario
scenario
shock (acute) scenario (SNBC for France)
A late reaction transition 
Too little, too late
y Disorderly scenario
orderl respSoundsed eisn d aisnrdu putnivaen tbicuipt sauteffidc ient  climWaet ed ogno’at lds oa nedn othueg hp rteos meneceet  of  Global warming is  Government policy: +USD  Carbon price
s physical risks spurs a disorderly 
Di enough to meet climate goals contained below 2°C 100 per ton of CO Productivity shock
way SKS transition Technology develo2pment: 
ath N RI Main  tehnee srghya rien  othf ere enneewrgayb lme ix 
P O assump-
nsition  RANSITI tions dCcooonunfibsduleemsnecre a nd investor 
a T
Tr Orderly Hot house world
y
erl We start reducing emissions now  We continue to increase emissions, 
d 2025 2060 / 2100 for full  2025 2025 / 2035 / 2040 / 2050
Or in a measured way to meet climate  doing very little, if anything to avert 
damage scenarios
goals the physical risks Time 
horizon
One-off for acute
PHYSICAL RISKS
Credit migration Credit migration Quantification of credit  Quantification of credit 
Met Not Met deterioration (spreads) deterioration (spreads)
and equity values based on  and equity values based 
Quantification of credit  Quantification of 
Risk  sector breakdown on sector breakdown
deterioration (spreads)  credit deterioration 
assess- Interest rate impacts Interest rates impacts
and equity values based  (spreads) and equity 
ment Inflation impact on 
on sector breakdown values based on 
inflation-linked bonds
sector breakdown
Enables a better  Worldwide map  Provides credit spreads  Provides credit spreads 
SCOR’s journey
a lot of valuable material for internal discussions on methodo- understanding of  on equities as well  and rate impacts, as well as  and rate impacts,
— In 2018, SCOR produced its first heatmap of climate tran- logies and limitations at the Executive Committee and Board  sectoral exposure to  as sovereign and  equity value impacts as well as equity value and 
Positive 
sition risk on its invested assets, using a Moody’s study  levels.  transition risks and  corporate bonds inflation impact
aspects
highlighting the most vulnerable sectors. This initial assessment  Exercises performed in 2019 were complemented in 2020  opportunities Several time horizons are 
handled
was complemented in 2019 by a first attempt to quantify the  by the ACPR climate stress tests. Given the uncertainties 
potential decreased value of invested assets, using both the 2°  around i) the climate scenarios, ii) their consequences in terms 
investing initiative study Storm Ahead, which is very close to  of macroeconomic variables, and iii) their inherent limitations,  Translation of the  High level view of  Only addresses transition  Only addresses transition 
the Inevitable Political Response proposed in late 2019 by the  we don’t believe that a re-run of the 2°ii or DNB scenarios on  shock into full macro- potential credit  risk risk for assets
PRI, and the DNB stress test scenarios. The results provided  a portfolio updated as of the end of 2020 brings a lot of value.  economic variables migration
No interest rates shock No interest rates 
Instead, using end of 2019 as a “benchmark” portfolio and 
shock
applying ACPR climate stress tests can provide more insight  Limita-
to understand the drivers of the risks and assess the pros and  tions
cons of different stress tests to support risk management. 2019  Top-down approach  Migration of credit ratings  Migration of credit ratings 
is also the baseline for the Net-Zero Asset Owner Alliance  which does not allow for  not analyzed not analyzed
targets and keeping this as a starting point seems reasonable  best-in-class strategy
for risk analysis.
SCOR 2020 SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT REPORT SCOR 2020 SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT REPORT
32 33
RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT
The results are not directly comparable between the three  3.5.   DEFORESTATION:   The deforestation risk assessment is performed in the fol-
Other limitations
simulations. The most advanced macroeconomic impacts re- PRELIMINARY MAPPING lowing way: for all companies badly rated either by CDP or by 
late to transition risk.  — One of the most critical limitations is the level of granularity  Forest 500, Group Investment Risk & Sustainability runs a 
of macroeconomic variables, which does not allow for best-in- — SCOR has taken additional steps in terms of assessing the  deeper analysis to confirm or reject the rating. Companies 
class mitigation strategies even though the ACPR has allowed  transition risk of its most liquid assets. Beyond carbon intensity,  above satisfying thresholds are considered as mostly addressing 
Time horizons
for “mitigation actions”. Data is another critical issue, as the  SCOR believes that deforestation has significant adverse im- their deforestation risks. 
— The ACPR has requested simulations up to 2050, which  European regulation on transparency is still being imple- pacts. Tackling climate change over the long-term requires  The companies in the SCOR portfolio potentially affected 
does not tie in with the duration of SCOR’s fixed income as- mented and investees are still struggling to disclose meaningful  actions to protect natural carbon mitigants, among which fo- by deforestation risk are then classified in the following cate-
sets, usually around four years. By 2050, the portfolio will have  and relevant information. The quantification of projections  rests play a critical role. Forests connect the dots between pu- gories:
rotated several times, and betting on sectoral allocation 20 or  should rely on forward-looking metrics, but at the present time  rely climate-related mitigation, adaptation measures and bio- ˃      “Deforestation risks are not addressed”, for cases where 
30 years from now looks too theoretical to be meaningful or to  we are not even at the stage where we have sufficient static  diversity, as a more holistic way of considering the resilience  the company has explicitly said it is not monitoring defo-
have any influence on credit risk allocation. 2025 is a common  information – there is still a lot to do in this respect.  of communities.  restation risks
horizon proposed in the three simulations and the one on  SCOR uses public tools and stress tests. The current level  SCOR has started to analyze its exposure to sectors that  ˃      “No evidence that deforestation risks are addressed”
which SCOR has concentrated its efforts. SCOR’s guidance  of granularity provides sub-sector information on transition  may be strongly impacting forests, especially food, personal  ˃      “Deforestation risks are only very partially addressed”
was to run simulations based on the portfolio as of the end of  climate change impacts. The success of the transition to a low  care/cosmetics, and oil and gas. As methodologies are at their  ˃      “Deforestation risks are mostly addressed”
2019, “as if” the asset allocation remained fully unchanged in  carbon economy requires more efforts than just exiting the  very preliminary stages and data is not yet available, portfolio  ˃      “Not applicable”, when no deforestation risk involvement 
2025.  highest emitting sub-sectors to invest in green activities. As the  screening is seen as the most relevant way of stimulating inter- is confirmed 
transition plays an important role in building a climate resilient  nal discussion. As it did for transition risk two years ago, SCOR 
economy, implementing a best-in-class strategy must be part  has built a heatmap of its most exposed positions, to stimulate 
Climate scenarios Mapping used for raising awareness
of the solution, which is incorrectly accounted for in these si- internal discussion and raise awareness on the topic. 
— Climate scenarios underpinning macroeconomic variables  mulations. Combining a top-down approach with a bottom up one  — As of June 2020, a screening of positions amounting to 
are not directly comparable between the 2° investing initiative,  enables us to better understand the challenges of tackling de- roughly EUR 2.6 billion was performed, leading to the fol-
the Central Bank of the Netherlands (DNB) and the ACPR  forestation. The issue is very broad, and investors lack data to  lowing breakdown:
Physical risks
stress tests. All refer to keeping global warming below 2°, but  screen their portfolios and identify the most material risks at 
the pathways and reference scenarios are not aligned. 2°ii de- — SCOR did not perform any new simulations on physical  an industrial scale. Screening each investee within the most 
signs its scenario based on the International Energy Agency  risks linked to stress testing in 2020.  exposed sectors – with the support of several data providers- 
specifications, while DNB and ACPR rely more on a carbon  may not show a robust methodology but it enables us to focus 
price to derive macroeconomic variables. on what may be most critical.  Exposure breakdown in sectors at risk
Results and conclusion
— The table below shows the compared quantification under 
Macroeconomic variables Screening methodology
the three simulations: 2°ii, DNB and ACPR. The conclusion 
— Rates are not always taken into account in the scenarios. We  remains unchanged compared to 2019. While the quantifica- — The goal was to assess the deforestation risk of companies 
have to bear in mind that, for (re)insurers, the bulk of fixed  tion may be challenged, given the limitations already  in the SCOR portfolio as of June 2020. In order to achieve this, 
income assets are backing liabilities. Consequently, most of the  highlighted in this section, the exercise is still very helpful to  we applied a double approach:
variations on assets are likely to be offset when running the  stimulate discussions and enhance SCOR’s understanding of  ˃      Bottom-up: identify SCOR sectors from companies rated 
same simulations on the liability side. Hence, even if the order  the risks to its invested assets. by SCOR’s data sources 
of magnitude of rate changes is significantly higher than for  ˃      Top-down: identify SCOR sectors most likely to use these 
credit spreads, SCOR focuses on credit impact when analyzing  four risky commodities; palm oil, soy, cattle, wood
results.  
SCOR uses two main data sources that rate companies on 
an annual basis:
˃      Forest 500 (UK publicly funded NGO project): identifies 
350 corporates and 150 financiers with the most significant  2% Deforestation risks are  
impact in risky supply chains, and assesses, per commodity  not addressed
TIME HORIZON 2025
and based on publicly available information, their commit- 30% No evidence that deforestation 
Transition –  Physical (full damage) –  Physical Acute  ment, their reporting/implementation and their social im- risks are addressed
Transition – Rates
Credit + Equities 2060 Credit (no time horizon) pact, and also scores their general commitments.
13% Deforestation risks are only very 
˃      Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP): sends questionnaires  partially addressed
2°ii loss <1% N/A loss <1% < 5% and offset by  to companies at risk (i.e. potential non-public information) 
liabilities
and scores, for each commodity they wish to disclose  40% Deforestation risks are 
mostly addressed
DNB loss <1% < 5% and offset by  (palm oil, soy, cattle products and timber), from D- to A 
liabilities depending on the awareness and effective management of  15%
deforestation risks. Companies can decline to answer. Not applicable
ACPR marginal gain < 5% and offset by 
liabilities
SCOR 2020 SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT REPORT SCOR 2020 SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT REPORT
34 35
RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT
Companies in the “Deforestation risks are mostly  RepRisk platform. This tool provides a timely and effective  3.6.   REAL ESTATE RISK ASSESSMENT: 
addressed” category represent only 40% of the amount under  reality check on what is happening on the ground, i.e. how a  CRREM
review, and 45% of that same amount is composed of compa- company conducts its business where it operates around the 
nies not addressing deforestation risk in a satisfying way. This  world. It is designed to detect potential controversies quicker  — CRREM (Carbon Risk Real Estate Monitor) is an EU  cial real estate property, and more specifically the potential 
shows that awareness about deforestation risk needs to be  than traditional providers. project to assess the climate transition risk for a given commer- stranding risk faced by a building.
raised among companies. This screening considers three periods: since 2017, since 
2015, and since 2019.
The total exposure to each company is split between “very 
Analysis of deforestation risk controversies
severe”, “severe” or “less severe”, based on the number of 
— In order to complete the above analysis, the SCOR portfo- occurrences in each severity level (market value weighted by 
lio is screened for deforestation risk controversies using the  severity).  Figure 3. Source CRREM
>6°C global warming CLIMATE RISK
High risk of physical and social   = PHYSICAL RISK + TRANSITION RISK
disruption
(EUR m) Since 2015 Since 2017 Since 2019
K
S
1,000 RI
L 
A
900 C
915.8 907.7 SI
Y
800 PH 1.5°C-2°C global warming
700 High risk associated with rapid 
transition (e.g., energy cost, 
600 667.0 obsolescence)
500
TRANSITION RISK
400
300 367.2
318.5
200 278.8
100
46.7 32.5
14.8
0
We used CRREM to assess the transition risk of the direct  is also utilized by the Science Based Targets initiative.
12 165 293 3 111 197 2 37 71 real estate owned and operated by SCOR, i.e. own-use build- ˃     T o derive building-type-specific carbon reduction tar-
ings (AUM of EUR 650 million as of June 2020). It was not  gets from country-specific targets, CRREM considers 
possible to use CRREM for investment real estate as there is  commercial building features like size or current carbon 
 Very severe  Severe  Less severe Source: RepRisk still not enough consumption data. For buildings located in  emission intensity in each country and subsector.
France, the “Décret tertiaire” will help the collection of infor-
mation and should enable us to run the same simulation next 
year.
The underlying scenario
According to the following breakdown (the numbers at the 
Conclusion
bottom of the graph contain the number of controversies), the  — To compute the carbon reduction pathways for a given 
top three most controversial sectors (very severe category) are:  — This is a preliminary attempt to identify the portion of the  property, the CRREM methodology involves three consecu-
food, personal care/cosmetics, and oil and gas. Ongoing mo- portfolio that may be at risk when considering deforestation.  tive steps:
nitoring will be performed to enhance SCOR’s deforestation  As an initial step, SCOR has joined initiatives such as Finance  ˃      To derive the decarbonization efforts necessary for the 
risk assessment.  for Biodiversity and CDP Forest Champions, to increase un- EU economy, based on the global carbon budget that can 
derstanding and awareness and foster corporate dialogue with  be emitted without exceeding the 1.5 or 2°C warming level, 
the most exposed companies. Finance for Biodiversity intends  CRREM uses data from the International Energy Agency 
to mirror the work of the Net-Zero Asset Owner Alliance and  (IEA) and climate models like Rockström et al.
ask members to set targets on biodiversity footprint in the  ˃  T    o derive the country specific commercial real estate 
future, once robust methodologies have been developed by the  targets from the total EU budget, CREEM uses the Secto-
initiative members.  ral Decarbonization Approach (SDA), a methodology that 
SCOR 2020 SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT REPORT SCOR 2020 SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT REPORT
36 37
RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT
Figure 4. Source CRREM Figure 5. Source: CRREM
Top-down approach for downscaling global carbon budgets and Asset level stranding diagram
 bottom-up approach from asset to commercial real estate sector carbon counting
GHG Intensity (kgCO/m2a)
2
Aggregated level Industry (commercial real estate)
World Company
˃  2°C / 1.5°C target Climate change
˃  IEA 2DS / Rockström et al. (HDD/CDD)
➔ Remaining global ‘‘carbon budget’’
y
ets nt pert
g e o
ed tar ˃EU  S BT EU ➔  emission budget Portfolio essm Pr
e-bas ˃➔   ICNoDuCnstr ➔y  b 3r.2ea°Ckdown on ass Retrofit Gdericdarbonization
enc arb €€€ Carbon price
ci C
S €€€
Commercial Real Estate Sector Asset
˃  SDA methodology Scopes 1 & 2
˃  GRESB, ENTRANZE (3 partially)
➔ Sector and subsector breakdown
2050 Year
Target Setting
 Decarbonization pathway  Stranding   Carbon price 
The tool The results
CRREM compares the “carbon performance” of buildings 
— CRREM simulates the carbon intensity (defined as kg- (black solid line) with a country “decarbonization pathway”  — The tool is used assuming no retrofit action to improve the 
CO₂e/m²/year) trajectory of a given building based on the  (“the target”, green line). energy efficiency of the buildings, although it does allow for 
current energy consumption and a forecast over the next few  When a property’s carbon intensity is higher than the tar- this option.
years of the electricity generation mix (and so of the carbon  get at the “year of stranding”, the property becomes a  ˃      When applied to the SCOR own-use European portfolio, 
emission factor) of a given country. The energy consumption  “stranded asset”. Stranded assets will encounter value write- the CRREM model shows that, without any retrofit action, 
in the future is set at the current level, with a few adjustments  out since they have excess emissions, for which they will need  a 17% emission reduction between 2019 and 2025 is achie-
to take into account the climate warming trend and to neutra- to pay extra carbon costs. For these assets, retrofit is needed to  vable.
lize the effect of weather variability. reduce their carbon intensity. ˃      Moreover, without retrofit, SCOR’s portfolio is compliant 
with the most ambitious target (1.5°C trajectory) from 
2019 to 2031 and would get stranded in 2038 (no longer 
aligned with even the 2°C trajectory).
SCOR 2020 SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT REPORT SCOR 2020 SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT REPORT
38 39
RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT
Conclusion
Stranding events
— CREEM enables us to assess climate transition risk on di-
Gross floor area (m2) rect real estate, which is an asset class that is not covered by the 
1,000,000,000 vast majority of the climate risk-related methodologies. In par-
ticular, it provides an assessment of the Implied Temperature 
100,000,000
1.5°C Rise of a real estate portfolio. Eligibility
10,000,000 The International Energy Agency climate scenarios and 
1,000,000 the way decarbonization pathways are derived from National 
Determined Contributions are the most impactful assump-
Technical Screening 
100,000
tions in the model. They may not be aligned with assumptions 
Criteria Test
10,000 underpinning other portfolio simulations, but the CRREM 
results provide valuable information on the resilience of 
1,000
SCOR’s direct real estate building for own use. They demon-
DNSH Test
100 strate the positive effect of the Group’s real estate business 
model and its longstanding efforts to improve energy efficien-
10
cy by upgrading buildings.
1
MSS
2018 2020 2022 2024 2026 2028 2030 2032 2034 2036 2038 2040 2042 2044 2046 2048 2050 3.7.   TAXONOMY
 Stranding events — Even if the taxonomy is still a work in progress at the Euro-
pean Commission, with the Sustainable Finance Platform 
taking over from the initial work of the Technical Expert Group 
One single building representing the bulk of the SCOR own-use real estate portfolio would get stranded 
around 2035 in a 1.5°C scenario on Sustainable Finance, several pieces of European regulation  For a given company or project, 
make direct reference to alignment with the taxo nomy. The  alignment is defined as the % of revenue 
(or capital expenditures or operating 
taxonomy is foundational for assessing activities that make a 
expenses) stemming from activities 
substantial contribution to six environmental objectives de-
that passed all the different steps of the 
fined by the EU legislative package in 2018: process
˃      Climate change mitigation
Average portfolio GHG intensity versus Paris targets ˃      Climate change adaptation
˃      Pollution prevention and control  
GHG intensity (kgCOe/m2/yr)
2 ˃      Circular economy
50
˃      Sustainable use and protection of water and marine re-
SCOR analysis
45 1.5°C sources
˃      Protection of healthy ecosystems.  Climate change mitigation
40
— Mitigation covers 70 economic activities and two types of 
35 contribution:
Methodology
˃      Substantial contribution due to own performance includes 
30
— As sustainability takes a holistic view and recognizes that  activities that are already low carbon and activities contri-
25 everything is interconnected, significant contributions tow  ards  buting to a transition to a net-zero emissions economy by 
achieving one objective should be compatible with the five  2050
20
others. This is the concept behind “Do No Significant Harm”  ˃      Activity enabling mitigation: activities that, through the 
15 or DNSH, which supplements the assessment of significant  provision of their products/services, enable a substantial 
contributions. As social objectives are not yet defined under  contribution in other activities.
10
the European Union regulation, minimum social safeguards 
5 (MSS), referring to OECD social Guidelines for Multinational  Climate change adaptation
Enterprises and UN Guiding Principles on Business and Hu- — Adaptation to climate change aims to manage impacts by 
0
man Rights, complete the framework.  reducing adverse effects and maximizing positive ones. Adap-
2018 2020 2022 2024 2026 2028 2030 2032 2034 2036 2038 2040 2042 2044 2046 2048 2050
Compliance with the EU taxonomy is assessed at activity  tation is split into two different blocks:
 2°C target  1.5°C target  Portfolio GHG intensity with retrofit level and sectors eligible to contribute to the objectives are  ˃      Activity-level adaptation aims to strengthen an asset or 
explicitly listed.  economic activity to withstand identified physical climate 
risks over its lifetime
The SCOR own-use real estate portfolio respects the most ambitious target from 2019 to 2031, but would 
get stranded in 2038 ˃      Systemic adaptation consists in actively reducing vulnera-
bility and building the resilience of wider system(s) (com-
munity, ecosystem, city, etc.).
SCOR 2020 SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT REPORT SCOR 2020 SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT REPORT
40 41
RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT
Adaptation covers 68 economic activities and two types of  at activity level should be assessed. Some information is  Figure 6.
contribution:  project-related (for infrastructure projects for instance, it may 
˃      Adapted activities – an economic activity is adapted to all  be that the project addresses one single objective and is fully  Illustration of the five-step assessment in practice:
material physical risks identified for the economic activity  aligned or not aligned at all). Some information relates to only 
to the extent possible and on a best-effort basis part of a company’s business and can be measured as a per-
Identify relevant  Quantify  Substantial  Do No  Social  EU taxonomy 
˃      Activities enabling adaptation of an economic activity: the  centage of the company’s revenue or of its operating expenses  activities relevant  contribution  Significant Harm  safeguard alignment
activity reduces material physical climate risk in other eco- (OpEx) or capital expenditures (CapEx). Before aggregating  revenues criteria criteria
nomic activities and/or addresses systemic barriers to  at portfolio level, data collection for an individual project or 
adaptation; and is itself adapted to physical climate risks. issuer must be successfully completed. This work is at a preli-
Aligned Aligned Aligned
minary stage, especially considering that some of the screening 
Mapping SCOR’s invested assets portfolio criteria for qualification are still under discussion and the re- Likely 
— The upcoming regulation, and especially the revision of the  gulation obliging companies to disclose has not yet come into  not aligned
Non-Financial Reporting Directive (NFRD), expects financial  force. 
institutions to disclose the portion of their invested assets  SCOR has started to work on the eligibility of some of its  Likely aligned
aligned with the EU taxonomy. The eligibility of all asset classes  portfolio, in order to become more familiar with the process, 
Aligned
better understand the challenges and assess current limitations.  Likely 
not aligned
Corporate bonds: activity level
Relevant 15% Not aligned
— EU taxonomy compliance should be assessed at activity 
level. For corporate bonds, this means that the issuer must 
Likely aligned
provide investors with information on metrics they can use to 
assess the part of the issuer’s activity aligned with the tax- Likely  ISS ESG goes beyond a binary classification 
onomy. This information can be disclosed under various for- not aligned (aligned vs. not aligned) and leverages in-house 
mats (% revenue, % OpEx, % CapEx). At the present time,  ESG data to further break down the «non-
verifiable» parts into likely aligned and likely not 
Singapore office / Singapore – certified Green Platinum data is disclosed on a voluntary basis with no standardization.  Not aligned
aligned sub categories.
The Taxonomy Regulation as well as the revision of the NFRD 
both intend to close this gap in the near future.  Not relevant 85%
Despite the low level of data available, SCOR attempted 
to apply the process to a limited part of its corporate bond 
portfolio. Some sectors are more advanced because of their 
higher impact on climate change. Utilities was selected to per- Using ISS data when applying these steps for the utilities 
form a pilot exercise and better understand the process and its  sector, the results show a 12% alignment of corporate bonds 
limitations. For the exercise, SCOR partnered with ISS, which  with the EU taxonomy.
is one of the most advanced data providers for this type of 
analysis.
Takeaways
— This should be considered as an experimental attempt to 
Methodology
understand the usability of the taxonomy when assessing the 
— The granularity was aligned with the taxonomy require- alignment of a limited portion of the portfolio with the tax-
ments: an issuer-based approach combined with an  onomy. The methodology looks quite robust on paper, but the 
 activity-type close-up. thresholds set for each screening criteria will play a critical role 
Activity types encompass green, enabling and transition. in the results. The current state of play of the data in terms of 
A five-step process was applied to comply with all the taxo- availability, robustness and collection significantly restricts the 
nomy requirements: exercise and does not allow for relevant use of the metrics. 
˃      Activity identification Going forward, and as the regulation fosters more trans-
˃      Revenue calculation split between taxonomy-relevant  parency, robustness and comparability of data, the exercise 
 activities, uncollected revenues and non-relevant revenues should provide a better view on the resilience of the portfolio 
˃      Assessment of revenue alignment with screening criteria  and support the achievement of the targets set under the 
for substantial contribution Net-Zero Asset Owner Alliance. Hopefully, SCOR will be able 
˃      Assessment of alignment with DNSH to accurately address the regulation when disclosing this in-
˃      Checking of compliance with minimal social safeguards  formation in the coming years.  
SCOR 2020 SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT REPORT SCOR 2020 SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT REPORT
42 43
RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT
3.8.   ASSESSING BIODIVERSITY FOOTPRINT:  As with the fight against climate change, responsible investors 
Methodology
PRELIMINARY WORK have a role to play in the protection of biodiversity. More and 
more stakeholders support the development of a biodiversity  — For each economic sector, the main drivers of biodiversity 
— Awareness is rising in terms of the pressure that biodiversity  climate change. The graph below presents actionable responses  footprint in order to measure the impact of companies on bio- loss are carefully selected, based on scientific literature. 
loss may put on ecosystems. Preserving biodiversity should be  to limit and reverse these pressures on ecosystems. Fighting  diversity. This measure is expected to play the same key role for   Examples of the most significant pressures on biodiversity are 
considered more broadly, including its interconnectedness with  against climate change is one action among others.  biodiversity as carbon footprint does for climate change. Assess- land use, climate change, nitrogen deposition and the release 
ing biodiversity footprint is the starting point for building a  of toxic compounds. The intensity of environmental pressures 
 strategy designed to better preserve ecosystems.  on biodiversity can differ from sector to sector. Using pres-
Various initiatives have been launched to protect biodiver- sure-impact relationships, these pressures are individually 
sity and SCOR signed the Finance for Biodiversity Pledge in  converted into the key metric km² MSA (mean species abun-
December 2020. The objective is to develop a common un- dance), with MSA loss representing the impact on biodiversity. 
Figure 7.  Source: Global Biodiversity Outlook 5 derstanding of the issue and define common views on how to  Iceberg Data Lab considers the direct biodiversity impact 
tackle it. This includes analyzing current methodologies and  (Scope 1), the biodiversity impact of energy suppliers 
A portfolio of actions to reduce loss and restore biodiversity assessing their benefits and limits. Members of the initiative  (Scope 2) and the upstream or downstream value chain 
support transparency and knowledge-sharing as a way to fos- (Scope 3) to allow a level playing field.
ter good practices. When the foundations have been set in  Iceberg Data Lab’s Corporate Biodiversity Footprint 
terms of methodologies, scope and metrics, the members in- (CBF) follows three successive steps: (1) company metrics are 
tend to set reduction targets for their biodiversity footprint.  collected. They are used to (2) estimate company-specific en-
Reduced  SCOR has partnered with Iceberg Data Lab in its prelimi- vironmental pressures. Those pressures are eventually (3) 
consumption nary attempt to understand methodologies and how they can  translated into a biodiversity impact. The sum of pressure- 
help to understand the challenges involved and find remedia- specific impacts corresponds to the CBF.
tion actions when possible.   
Sustainable
production
Reducing
other drivers
Climate change
action
Conservation
restoration
2000 2010 2020 2030 2040 2050
Trends in biodiversity (various metrics, left axis) have been declining and are projected to continue to do so under 
business as usual scenarios (trend lines). Various areas of action could reduce the rate of biodiversity decline, 
and the full portfolio of actions, in combination, could halt and reverse the decline (bend the curve), potentially 
leading to net biodiversity gains after 2030. These are, from bottom to top: (1) Enhanced conservation and 
restoration of ecosystems; (2) climate change mitigation; (3) action on pollution, invasive alien species and over 
exploitation; (4) more sustainable production of goods, especially food; and (5) reduced consumption and waste. 
However, none of the areas of action alone, nor in partial combinations, can bend the curve of biodiversity loss. 
Moreover, the effectiveness of each area of action is enhanced by the other areas (see part II of the full report for 
discussion).
Paris headquarters / France – Certified ISO 14001
SCOR 2020 SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT REPORT SCOR 2020 SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT REPORT
4444 4455
RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT
Figure 8.
Source: Iceberg Data Lab
CORPORATE 
QUANTIFIED
Pressure-impact  
BIODIVERSITY FOOTPRINT:   ENVIRONMENTAL  relationship
PRESSURES
METHODOLOGY
Climate 
change
QUANTIFIED IMPACTS 
ON BIODIVERSITY
INPUT
Automated data  
Land use
mining
MSA climate change
KEY ACTIVITY  Nitrogen  MSA land use
METRICS Scientific literature plus EEIO   deposition ANNUAL 
and LCA databases BIODIVERSITY 
IMPACT
Business Activity MSA nitrogen deposition
Toxic  
compounds
MSA toxic compounds
BOTTOM-UP ASSESSMENT LIFE CYCLE ANALYSIS NORMALIZATION
Corporate activity based on their   Using Life Cycle Assessment data   Impact is calculated on financial ratios allowing  
reported/modeled output allows us to quantify the environmental pressures   cross-sectoral comparisons
along the entire supply chain
SSCCOORR  22002200  SSUUSSTTAAIINNAABBLLEE  IINNVVEESSTTMMEENNTT  RREEPPOORRTT SSCCOORR  22002200  SSUUSSTTAAIINNAABBLLEE  IINNVVEESSTTMMEENNTT  RREEPPOORRTT
46 47
RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT
Takeaways
the difficulty of steering biodiversity indicators when taking 
General presentation of the GLOBIO  — SCOR values the exploratory work provided by this first  investment decisions. It provides valuable input to support the 
model biodiversity analysis. It enables us to better understand the  work of the Finance for Biodiversity initiative and accelerates 
challenges involved in terms of methodologies and data, and  the overall approach to protecting biodiversity. 
GLOBIO is a model covering the entire 
surface area of the planet. It is divided into 
0.5° by 0.5° grid cells (50 km by 50 km at 
the Equator), i.e. 720 x 360 = 259,200 grid 
cells. The model enables users to assess 
Figure 9. Source: CDC Biodiversité
the intactness of biodiversity in each of 
these grid cells:
˃      by estimating the intensity of aggregated  The GLOBIO model’s biodiversity 
pressures within each grid cell, and  indicator: MSA and km2 MSA
˃      by calculating the impact of these 
The first step of the Corporate Biodiversity Footprint (CBF)  pressures on biodiversity.
assessment is to gather data. Iceberg Data Lab uses a double 
approach:  Six kinds of pressures are considered in the  Mean species abundance (MSA) is used to  For example, 
˃      Top down: a top-down model is used to model the com- model: describe biodiversity changes compared to  1 km² of an intensively cultivated field (10% 
pany input and output flows, the environmental pressures  ˃      Land use the original state of ecosystems. It is defined as  MSA) equates to 1*10% = 0.1 km² MSA. Also, 
relating to the company activity and, finally, the company  ˃      Natural land fragmentation the average abundance of originally occurring  the MSA change from 100% to 75% on a 1 km² 
biodiversity impact. All companies are assessed on the en- ˃      Nitrogen deposition species relative to their abundance in the  field means a loss of (100%-75%)*1 = 0.25 km² 
tire scope of their activity ˃      Infrastructures undisturbed ecosystem. MSA. Of course, this means that an MSA change 
˃      Bottom-up: the modeled physical and/or environmental  ˃      Encroachment of natural land The km² MSA indicator shows the MSA over a  from 100% to 0% on a 0.25 km² field will also 
flows are replaced by bottom-up data from company  ˃      Climate change specific surface area. equate to 0.25 km² MSA loss. 
d isclosures, which decreases the uncertainty level of the 
Iceberg Data Lab currently focuses on four  Considering two fields of equal surface area 
analysis. 
input pressures as described previously: and an MSA of 100%, the two different changes 
to MSA below would result in the same amount 
The collection of corporate data is based on company dis- ˃      Land-use
of km² MSA lost:
closures such as the annual report and the sustainability report,  ˃      Nitrogen deposition 
plus data from financial providers. Additionally, companies’  ˃      Climate change
consumption and production can be modeled based on macro  ˃      Toxic compounds
data and databases from governmental and non-governmental 
The GLOBIO model enables users to 
organizations or recognized scientific publications.
translate these four pressures into a 
During the second step, environmental pressures are 
biodiversity loss in MSA and then into  
a ssessed. If no environmental pressures are reported, the input 
km² MSA. 
data is used to model them, based on scientific literature or life 
cycle assessment data. 
˃      Option 1: The pressures on the environment are directly  MSA OF 100%
Application to SCOR’s portfolio
reported by the company being analyzed; the assessment 
MSA OF 75%
of environmental pressure is direct — One of the most critical parts of this methodology is the 
˃      Option 2: The pressures on the environment are not di- challenge of collecting data. The Iceberg Data Lab metric co-
rectly reported. In this case, Iceberg Data Lab uses scien- vers around 12% of SCOR’s corporate bond portfolio. Using 
tific literature plus Environmentally Extended Input-Out- the absolute biodiversity footprint by Enterprise Value, this  MSA OF 
put and Life-Cycle Assessment databases to deduce the  exposure has a footprint of roughly -1,300 km² MSA per year. 
0%
quantitative pressures on the environment caused by the  This can be interpreted as the conversion per year of 1,300 
company being assessed, using the data collected during  km² of undisturbed natural ecosystems into completely artifi-
step 1. cialized zones. The results depend strongly on sector allocation, 
as activities are the main driver of biodiversity footprint. Agri-
During the final step, the environmental pressures are trans- culture has by far the largest biodiversity footprint due to its 
lated into biodiversity impact using the respective pressure-  very significant land-use pressure. 
impact relationships for each pressure. All pressures are then  Iceberg Data Lab will work on improving the accuracy of 
combined into km² MSA to calculate the annual impact. This  input data in 2021, adding pressures and expanding the num-
final step is achieved using the GLOBIO Model. ber of issuers covered.
SCOR 2020 SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT REPORT SCOR 2020 SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT REPORT
4488 49
METRICS AND TARGETS
4.1.    METRICS
ALM purposes, backing the Group’s underwriting com-
mitments. Investing in other asset classes entails other risks 
and capital constraints that are not deemed relevant given 
Risks and opportunities
SCOR’s risk appetite.
ESG ratings – ISS-ESG methodology ˃      Corporate bonds: The methodology developed by ISS-
— The ISS-ESG rating methodology is based on the analysis  ESG to rate private companies is also based on the two 
of environmental and social (“E” and “S”) factors, including  groups of E and S factors, but their weighting depends on 
governance criteria.  the business sector they relate to. Analyses are based on 
˃  G     overnment bonds: For government securities, ISS-ESG  financial and non-financial data provided by the compa-
assigns equal weighting to the two groups of E and S fac- nies, complemented by interviews with employees and 
tors. At SCOR, government bonds are used mainly for  external stakeholders.
CHAPTER 04
METRICS AND 
ESG rating Average ESG rating Coverage ratio % of total assets
TARGETS
Total portfolio C 84% 100%
Government bonds 100% 26%
Covered bonds 100% 7%
Corporate bonds 95% 43%
Equity 94% 2%
SCOR’s portfolio is rated C on average, unchanged com- transition to a low-carbon economy. In addition, individual 
pared with the previous year. The coverage ratio is very  due diligence is performed on a line-by-line basis to assess 
d ifferent from one asset class to another but stands overall at  the internal “green stamp”. 
84% of the total invested assets. As expected, government 
bonds and corporate bonds are the most widely covered. As  As of the end of 2020, the green bucket of SCOR’s invest-
they represent the bulk of SCOR’s assets, the current assess- ment portfolio stands at EUR 1.6 billion including operating 
ment of the overall portfolio is deemed acceptable. real estate. This represents 7.3% of SCOR’s overall assets ver-
sus 7% at the end of 2019. The increase is driven by significant 
Opportunities investments in green bonds, which more than doubled the 
˃ G     reen bucket: SCOR defines green assets according to its  holdings over the past year. 
internal taxonomy. The current limitations when applying 
EU taxonomy criteria advocate for keeping the same me-
Weeli Wolli Creek (Australia) — Located in 
the central Hamersley Range, Weeli Wolli  thodology until data availability and robustness have ma-
Creek and its surrounding wetlands support  terially improved. Asset classes in SCOR’s “green bucket” 
a unique community of plants and animals,  include direct real estate investments, infrastructure and 
some of which are endemic to the region. 
real estate debts, and green bonds. To be eligible, real estate 
must be certified and infrastructure debt must finance the 
SSCCOORR  22002200  SSUUSSTTAAIINNAABBLLEE  IINNVVEESSTTMMEENNTT  RREEPPOORRTT SCOR 2020 SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT REPORT
50 51
METRICS AND TARGETS
˃      ILS: SCOR invests in insurance-linked securities through 
Impact
funds managed by its subsidiary SCOR Investments 
Exposure to insurance-linked securities  Partners. Unlike the risks borne by its physical assets,  Carbon footprint  In line with the work of the Net-Zero Asset Owner Alliance, 
in EUR million SCOR is compensated for taking acute physical climate  — SCOR continues to rely on ISS-ESG data to measure the  and in order to solve the issue of allocation between debt and 
risks when investing in this type of product. The bucket  carbon footprint of its portfolio. Since 2016, the Group has  equity, SCOR has decided to move from WACI based on re-
200 provides strong performance and diversification to its  used the weighted average carbon intensity (WACI) for its  venue or GDP to WACI based on Enterprise Value.
portfolio. corporate bond, equity and government bond portfolios.  The formula used for this calculation is the following:
180
182
160
159
140
120 135
125
Exposure to green bonds Financed emissions for  Market Value
100
in EUR million a given issuer x Issuer emissions
100
80 Enterprise Value
400
60
40 350 Enterprise Value = Market capitalization + Outstanding debt
351
20
300
0
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 250
Carbon intensity by 
EV per EUR m invested for  ∑i(Financed emissions for a given issuer)i 
200
a given portfolio x 1,000,000
180 Portfolio market value
150
100 136
119
80
50
0 The carbon intensity of a portfolio measured with  There is also a one-year lag when computing the 
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Enterprise Value metrics is sensitive to portfolio  figures at portfolio level as issuers’ data is already 
allocation and to issuers’ data: one year old at the time of calculation. This lag is 
all the more visible given that market capitalization 
˃      The higher the assets invested in carbon intensive  is captured daily. As an example, in the calculation 
companies, the higher the intensity as of the end of 2020, carbon emissions of an 
˃      The higher the emission, the higher the intensity issuer relate to 2019, whereas market capitalization 
˃      The lower the market capitalization, the higher the  is shown as of the end of 2020. For oil and gas 
intensity companies, the impact of this is significant: Covid-19 
˃      The lower the outstanding debt, the higher the  impacts are not yet visible in the GHG emissions, 
intensity despite equity prices declining materially. This 
volatility reduces when extending the period of 
comparison. 
SCOR 2020 SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT REPORT SCOR 2020 SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT REPORT
52 53
METRICS AND TARGETS
4.2. TARGETS
Carbon intensity on Enterprise   2019 2020 Coverage ratio  Year-on-year 
Value (EV) in 2020 evolution
— As a member of the Net-Zero Asset Owner Alliance, SCOR  sub-portfolio. This will be achieved by combining a best-in-
commits to setting targets for the decarbonization of its port- class selection with active engagement with investees, in order 
All scope 1, scope 2 and scope 3
folio. The baseline is end of year 2019 and the target is set over  to impact the real economy. The decarbonization path cannot 
a five-year time horizon, running until the end of 2024. SCOR  be achieved by rebalancing the highest emitting sectors to the 
Government bonds 951 820 99.9% -14%
believes that carbon footprint is more meaningful when taking  least emitting ones, with no consideration in terms of suppor-
scope 3 into account and that carbon-intensive sectors are the  ting companies with credible paths to decarbonization. Pro-
Covered bonds 2 2 99.2% +5%
ones for which scope 3 matters most. For these reasons, and  gress should be measured globally over the period, bearing in 
despite some weaknesses in the current data, SCOR has de- mind the lag of data and the time it takes for companies to 
Corporate bonds 268 347 97.9% +29%
cided to set varbon intensity targets including scope 3 for its  show visible results in their own decarbonization path. 
corporate bond and equities sub-portfolio, based on the En- For the sake of transparency, SCOR will report on decar-
Equity (incl. convertibles) 401 496 97.8% +24%
terprise Value of issuers.  bonization progress on a yearly basis. However, figures should 
SCOR commits to reducing its carbon intensity by 27%  be read cautiously and only a longer-term trend will provide 
by the end of 2024 for the corporate bond and equities  reasonable information on decarbonization achievements. 
The increase in equity and corporate bond carbon inten- already explained, the data lacks robustness and is still being 
sity year-on-year is mainly driven by limitations relating to  adjusted, with models and methodologies improving regular-
misalignment between carbon intensity and Enterprise Value,  ly. Rather than the absolute level, SCOR prefers to consider 
Carbon intensity on Enterprise   2019 2020 Coverage  Evolution  Target
exacerbated by the Covid-19 crisis. the trend.
Value (EV) ratio  versus 2020   2025
As in the past, SCOR has selected Carbon 4 for this as- in 2020 (31/12/2019)
Implied Temperature Rise sessment. The measurement is stable year on year at 2.8°C but 
— The Implied Temperature Rise is a forward-looking metric  shows a decrease compared to last year’s figures due to model 
All scope 1, scope 2 and scope 3
used to try to measure the alignment of a portfolio or an asset  changes implemented by Carbon 4. Once again, this demons-
class with the Paris Agreement, i.e. to limit global warming to  trates the relative weakness of this forward-looking measure. 
well below 2°C by 2100 compared to preindustrial levels. As  Corporate bonds + Equity 273 353 97.9% +30% -27%
Implied Temperature Rise 2018 2019 2020 Despite the rise shown by the results in 2020, mainly driven  its selection of best-in-class companies in the highest emitting 
by the misalignment of carbon emissions and Enterprise Value,  sectors will support its approach to decarbonizing with a po-
Previous methodology 3.1°C 3.2°C SCOR is confident in its ability to achieve its five-year target  sitive impact on the real economy. 
for corporate bonds and equities. Its portfolio positioning and 
2020 methodology / metrics 2.9°C 2.8°C 2.8°C
SCOR 2020 SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT REPORT SCOR 2020 SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT REPORT
54 55
METRICS AND TARGETS
SCOR AROUND THE WORLD
EMEA*: 
References
Belgium  
France 
Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD). 
Germany 
Fifth edition of the Global Biodiversity 
Ireland 
 Outlook, 2020.
Italy 
Folke, C., R. Biggs, A. V. Norström,  
Russia 
B. Reyers, and J. Rockström, 2016. 
South Africa 
Social-ecological resilience and 
Spain  
biosphere-based sustainability science. 
Sweden 
Ecology and Society 21(3):41. http://dx.
Switzerland 
doi.org/10.5751/ES-08748-210341
United Kingdom
Carbon Risk Real Estate Monitor (CRREM). 
Stranding Risk & Carbon. Science-based  AMERICAS:
decarbonizing of the EU commercial real 
Argentina  
estate sector, 2019.
Barbados 
CDC Biodiversité. Global Biodiversity 
Brazil  
Score: measuring a company’s biodiversity 
Canada 
footprint. N°11 – November 2017.
Chile  
Colombia  
Credits Mexico
Design and production: Pelham Media  United States
ASIA-PACIFIC:
Australia 
Mainland China 
Hong Kong 
India 
Japan 
Malaysia 
New Zealand  
The digital version of this document is  Singapore 
conform to Web content accessibility  South Korea 
standards, WCAG 2.1, and is certified  Taiwan
ISO 14289-1. Its design enables people 
with motor disabilities to browse through 
this PDF using keyboard commands. 
Accessible for people with visual 
impairments, it has been tagged in full, 
so that it can be transcribed vocally by 
screen readers using any computer 
support.
Accessibility version by
*Europe, Middle East, Africa
SCOR 2020 SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT REPORT SCOR 2020 SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT REPORT
56
To learn more about  
SCOR’s strategy, goals,  
commitments  
and markets, visit our  
website.
www.scor.com
Follow us  
on social media
SCOR 2020 SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT REPORT