
2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
ENABLING A  
BETTER, SAFER  
AND MORE  
INTERCONNECTED 
WORLD
1
Contents
SGS’s value to society  2 OUR PEOPLE  51
Empowering our people to succeed  52
OUR APPROACH  4
Talent acquisition and retention  53
Letter to our Shareholders  5
Keeping our people safe  55
Sustainability leadership Q&A  6
Diversity and inclusion  59
Delivering across our strategic pillars in 2020  7
Training and development  61
17 63 Our business model – how we create our   8 
Engagement and well-being  63
value to society
Rewarding talent  66
Key trends – our changing world  9
our SDG contribution engagement and well-being
Sustainability governance  10 ENVIRONMENT  67
Risk  11 Protecting our planet  68
Engaging our stakeholders  13 Our carbon neutrality strategy  69
Materiality  15 Our science-based targets  70
Our sustainability strategy  16 Reducing energy consumption  71
Our SDG contribution  17 Renewable energy  73
Sustainability Ambitions 2020  21 Carbon offsetting  74
Quantifying our value to society  22 Climate change risks and opportunities  75
68 77
CREATING VALUE FOR OUR CUSTOMERS  27 Responsible use of natural resources  76
protecting our planet supporting communities Overview and approach  28 COMMUNITY  77
Building relationships with our customers  29 Part of our local communities  78
Innovating for our customers  31 Supporting communities through empowerment  80
GThRiIs L iIcNoKnS shows where  Business continuity  34 Supporting communities through  81 
text aligns with specific  Our sustainability services  35 environmental protection
GRI Indicators. Supporting communities through education  82
PROFESSIONAL EXCELLENCE  37
ANNUAL 
REPORT Overview and approach  38 LOOKING FORWARD  83
To download our Reporting   Compliance and integrity  39 Looking forward   84
Standards Index click here
Human rights  42
Read our online Integrated Report   ABOUT THIS REPORT  85
Data privacy and protection  43
and our online Sustainability Report at  
Our reporting approach   86
www.sgs.com/en/annual-report Supply chain management  46
Glossary of material topics  87
Our world class facilities  50
Databank  88
Independent assurance statement from our auditors  93
Get in touch  95
REPORTING STANDARDS INDEX
GRI  1
SASB  7
TCFD  8
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
2
SGS’s value to society Our value to society is to enable a better, safer and 
102-16
more interconnected world. Wherever you are, in 
whatever industry, you can rely on our international 
teams of experts to provide specialized solutions to 
make your business faster, simpler and more efficient.
BETTER
Better, because society 
demands ever higher  35
%
standards for products 
and services delivered 
230 000
by business.
expected increase in  
food production by 2030
AGRICULTURE AND FOOD
By supporting our customers’ food  The global food system will need to meet  energy efficient buildings are expected to be 
product research and development,  an expected 35% rise in demand by 2030.  built in South Korea alone over the next decade. 
we help deliver better products to 
consumers which use fewer additives  Source: FAO – Food and Agricultural Organization Source: www.weforum.org
and higher quality ingredients.
SAFER An interconnected world, because the future 
of business will require managing all aspects 
of an interconnected society, including 
consumers, communications, transactions, 
supply chains and mobility.
Safer, because business is 
CONSTRUCTION
pushing the boundaries of 
science and technology, from  When a project is conceived, we can help make   MORE 
the plans a reality by ensuring processes run 
autonomous driving to the race  efficiently, construction sites are safe and reliable 
2.8 for new vaccines. Safety is the  materials are used throughout the supply chain.
 MIO
number one priority.
INTERCONNECTED
people have so far died around the  LIFE SCIENCES
world due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Our analytical, bioanalytical and  
clinical trial testing, along with process  
Source: www.worldometers.info management capabilities, provide  
a wide range of essential services.
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
3
SGS’s value to society
 continued 102-2
102-6
102-7
102-16
HOW WE ADD VALUE EMPLOYEES* OUR INDUSTRIES
We add value to society by enabling a better,  89 000 SGS is active in virtually all sectors of the economy, providing a wide 
safer and more interconnected world through  range of inspection, verification, testing and certification services at all 
our actions as a company, through our supply  stages of the value chain.
*  Full-time equivalent
chain, and by offering services that help our 
customers achieve their own sustainability  OIL AND GAS CONSTRUCTION
objectives, using our scale and expertise  OFFICES AND LABORATORIES Innovative, sustainable solutions along  Ensuring safety and performance 
the value chain. when constructing buildings 
to enable a more sustainable future. 2 600 or infrastructure.
MINING
Delivering expert services to 
VALUE TO SOCIETY* improve speed to market, manage 
risks and maximize returns. CONSUMER GOODS AND RETAIL
6 579 Enabling manufacturers, exporters, 
CHF 
importers and retailers to generate 
ENERGY trust throughout the supply chain.
Powering processes in renewables 
*  Value calculated in 2020 for 2019
and conventional energy.
CHEMICAL TRANSPORTATION
Driving innovation, optimization,  Driving a safer, cleaner 
efficiency and safety across the board,  and more efficient industry.
from feedstocks to finished products.
AGRICULTURE AND FOOD LIFE SCIENCES
Developing innovative safety,  Safeguarding the quality 
quality and sustainability  and efficacy of medicines.
solutions for supply chains.
INDUSTRIAL MANUFACTURING PUBLIC SECTOR
Making manufacturing more  Facilitating trade and sustainable 
productive and profitable. development. Protecting society 
against fraud and economic crime.
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
4
HOW HAS SGS CONTRIBUTED 
TO MAKING THE WORLD 
BETTER, SAFER AND MORE 
INTERCONNECTED IN 2020?
O  UR APPROACH “ We offer services that help our 
customers to add value to society and 
be more sustainable. By supporting each 
other, and sharing our knowledge and 
expertise, we can multiply our impact, 
and make the world better, safer and 
more interconnected.”
  Frankie Ng
  Chief Executive Officer
Letter to our Shareholders    5
Sustainability leadership Q&A  6
Delivering across our strategic pillars in 2020  7
Our business model –how we create our value to society  8
Key trends – our changing world  9
Sustainability governance  10
Risk  11
Engaging our stakeholders  13
Materiality  15
Our sustainability strategy  16
Our SDG contribution  17
Sustainability Ambitions 2020  21
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report Quantifying our value to society  22
5
Letter to our Shareholders
102-14
Dear Shareholders,  of how we behave as a company and the  As we head into 2021, we will increase our 
value we provide to our customers through  sustainability services offering. We will continue 
We are pleased to share with you our 2020 
our services. We will launch our Sustainability  to help our customers to navigate increasing 
Corporate Sustainability Report, detailing our 
Ambitions 2030 in Q2. regulations, while seizing the opportunity offered 
sustainability performance for the past year. 
by becoming even more sustainable in the way 
We immediately recognized the gravity of the 
Over the past seven years, we have consistently  they operate. 
situation and took a leading role in implementing 
earned global recognition as one of the most 
proper measures to protect our people.  Our completed 2020 Sustainability Ambitions 
sustainable companies in the world. In a year 
Thinking creatively, we have developed new  encompasses a holistic and global approach to 
which marked the completion of our 2020 
ways of working, or adapted existing ones, to  sustainability, both in terms of how we behave 
Sustainability Ambitions strategy, we were 
keep our own business running successfully.  as a Company, and the value we provide to our 
ranked in first place for the seventh year in a row 
We developed services to help our customers  customers through our services. 
in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) 
keep their supply chains operating responsibly 
World and Europe, and received the DJSI Gold  Having completed these Ambitions, in Q2 
and safely though our ‘Next Normal’ solutions 
Award. We were rated A- by the CDP and were  2021 we will launch our new integrated 
services. We have also supported our 
a CDP Supplier Engagement Leader for actions  2030 Sustainability Ambitions. This touches 
communities, organizing volunteering and 
to mitigate climate change and address climate  all areas of our business, aligned with our 
Calvin Grieder fundraising activities.
risks across our entire supply chain.  business strategy and taking into account 
Chairman of the Board
megatrends in society, as well as the United 
We have also been recognized this year by  VALUE TO SOCIETY 
Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals. 
several other bodies: we have been upgraded to  Value creation continues to be at the very 
Key priorities will be to continue to reduce our 
AAA in the Morgan Stanley Capital International’s  heart of the way we do business. We create 
use of energy as we work towards our science-
(MSCI) Environment Social Governance (ESG),  value directly in the way we operate and enable 
based climate targets, and to increase the 
ranking in the top four professional services  value creation indirectly. We do this both through 
representation of women on our management 
companies; rated as being at ‘low risk’ of  our stakeholders, such as our suppliers, and 
team and to continue improving our health 
experiencing material financial impacts from  in the services we provide to our customers, 
and safety indicators. 
ESG factors by Sustainalytics; and rated as  which in turn helps them add value to society. 
PRIME by ISS ESG Corporate Rating for our  Behind every business success are our 
In 2020, we calculated a total value to society 
excellence in managing ESG aspects, from over  people, and we are incredibly proud of the 
of CHF 6 579 million from our direct operations 
199 companies in our sector. We are proud of  innovation and responsiveness that they have 
and supply chain activities1. By putting a 
the recognition of the hard work of our people  shown throughout 2020. Their hard work and 
monetary value on our value to society, 
in delivering sustainable value for society. commitment to supporting our customers and 
we ensure that we make better decisions, 
sustainability has reinforced our leadership 
for our business and society as a whole. 
IMPACT OF COVID-19  position in the TIC industry, and contributed 
Despite the challenges of 2020, we have  to making the world better, safer and 
LOOKING AHEAD 
successfully navigated the Covid-19 crisis,  more interconnected.
Today we are sustainability leaders, driving a 
Frankie Ng while continuing to drive our sustainability  sustainability culture in the Testing, Inspection  By continuing to work together, we can – 
Chief Executive Officer agenda forward both in our operations and 
and Certification sector. But we know that  and will – overcome any challenges, and 
service development. 
we need to keep evolving, in a world that is  emerge even stronger, continuing to add 
We have completed our 2030 Sustainability  more volatile and less certain, and we will  value to our shareholders and society.
Ambitions which encompasses a holistic and  continue to be agile in the way we adapt 
global approach to sustainability both in terms  to new market circumstances. 
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report 1. Value to society is calculated using 2019 figures
6
Sustainability leadership Q&A
Q: This year marks the end of your  Q: How has SGS demonstrated  Q: How is SGS continuing to 
2020 strategy. What have been the  its value to society this year?  develop as a sustainability leader? 
key learnings and achievements? 
PAULA ORDOÑEZ: DANIEL RÜFENACHT:
We add value to society every day, in everything  Our position as a sustainability leader is based 
DANIEL RÜFENACHT:
we do. This is core to the way we do business,  on integrating sustainability into our culture, so 
For many years, we have driven progress in 
is driven from the very top, and can be seen in  that everybody in the organization understands 
the Testing, Inspection and Certification sector 
the new sustainability strategy which we have  sustainability and how we add value to society. 
in sustainability. Our leadership in this field has 
been working on this year.  Internally, our evolution lies with our 2030 
been recognized by the likes of DJSI, CDP, 
strategy. For example, we will focus on gender 
MSCI and Sustainalytics. We have helped to  In addition to delivering on our current 
diversity not through setting quotas, but by 
show what is possible and to raise standards  strategy and initiatives, which did not stop during 
making sure that recruitment opportunities are 
across the industry.  the pandemic – we have been making a very 
equally available to male and female candidates. 
real social contribution in response to Covid-19, 
We are proud that SGS is a net positive  In health and safety, we aim for outstanding 
both to our own people and beyond. 
company, and we are able to demonstrate  performance, staying ahead of the curve in 
this through our measurement of the value  Internally, we quickly implemented many  terms of compliance and making sure we are a 
Daniel Rüfenacht
Group VP Corporate Communications of our impact on society.  initiatives that protected the health of our  company that people can trust. We also continue 
employees, from facilitating remote working,  to work to increase our use of renewable energy, 
We have worked hard to integrate 
to the provision of PPE. We focused on  which will enable us to reduce our investment 
sustainability into our culture and across 
morale through our SGS People 15 Day  in carbon offsetting projects.
our business operations, supply chain 
Challenge – see our case study on page 65 
and services.  However, sustainability leadership is not just 
– in which we showed our appreciation for 
about what we do within our business. It’s 
As part of our effort to tackle climate change,  our colleagues’ hard work. 
about going out to the market and helping make 
we have reduced the CO  emissions from 
2 Beyond our own operations, we provided  changes there too – and given the wide reach 
our buildings and car fleet, and are continuing 
solutions that are helping customers weather  of our business across sectors, there are many 
to make great strides in this area. 
the Covid-19 storm and get back to business as  diverse opportunities. We are planning to engage 
Having completed our 2020 Sustainability  usual, through what we call our ‘Next Normal’  with impact investors to support initiatives like 
Ambitions strategy this year, we will launch a  solutions. In 2020, we measured our Value  our SGS Academy for the Community program, 
bold integrated sustainability strategy in 2021,  to Society1 as being worth CHF 6 579 million.  which supports local communities. We are 
raising the bar for ourselves again with new  (See page 22 for how we quantify the value  also looking into public-private partnership 
ambitious targets.  we add to society)  opportunities that focus on sustainability. 
Our goal is to continue to lead our sector in 
Paula Ordoñez sustainability and also to help our customers 
Global Head of Corporate Sustainability increase their sustainability, no matter which 
sector they are in. This will help us to deliver 
even more value to society going into the future. 
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report 1. Value to society is calculated using 2019 figures
7
Delivering across our strategic pillars in 2020
PROFESSIONAL EXCELLENCE OUR PEOPLE ENVIRONMENT COMMUNITY
100 48.8 Carbon Neutral 1 243
% CHF   K
SGS maintained its status as a  
of spend analyzed for sustainability risks training hours per employee carbon neutral company since 2014 invested in communities around the world
83 0.23 43 51
% %
of customers satisfied with SGS service Lost Time Injury Rate decreased  decrease in total greenhouse gas   Number of countries participating 
by 62% since 2014 emissions against a 2014 baseline in community projects
99
% 0.36 95 323
%
completion rate of data protection  
and privacy eLearning Total Recordable Incident Rate   electricity from renewable sources community projects supported
decreased by 68% since 2014
0 470
28.7 +
%
human rights violations energy efficiency initiatives identified within 
women in senior leadership positions our Energy Efficiency in Buildings program
Read more on page 37 Read more on page 51 Read more on page 67 Read more on page 77
RANKINGS AND 
RATINGS 2021
SGS ranks first in the Professional Services Industry and retains  Rated A- leading   Rated Low Risk   Upgraded to AAA in   Rated as PRIME by ISS  Awarded with the Platinum Medal  
its leadership position for the seventh consecutive year position by the CDP by Sustainalytics the MSCI ESG rating ESG Corporate Rating by Ecovadis Sustainability Rating
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
2 0 M ANAGEMENT   M ANAGEMENT   C ORPORATE   F INANCIAL   S HAREHOLDER   281
R EPORT R EPORT G OVERNANCE S TATEMENTS I NFORMATION
O UR BUSINESS O UR BUSINESS
O  ur business model
OC  ruer abtuinsgin Vesaslu me otod eSl o–c hieotwy  
102-2
  For more information   102-6
we create our value to society read our 2020 Integrated   102-7
Annual Report online at   103-1-3
www.sgs.com/en/annual-report
We create value to society
OUR INPUTS OUR BUSINESS MODEL OUR OUTPUTS OUR VALUE
CHF 702 MIO CHF 1 134 MIO OUR PURPOSE CHF 5.6 BN CHF 758 MIO CHF 2 797 MIO paid in wages to our employees
CHF 253 MIO taxes paid to governments
Proﬁt (prior year) Total equity Enabling a  Revenue Free cash ﬂow*
CHF 598 MIO in dividends proposed  
FINANCIAL FINANCIAL to our shareholders
The funds available to us   CHF 6 908 MIO Long-term shareholder  16.1%
  better, safer  value creation
Total assets Adjusted operating income margin*
+2 600 CHF 259 MIO and more  LAB EXPANSION Ensuring food, medicine and product safety
Increasing our capability and capacity for testing 
Ofﬁces and laboratories  Capital expenditure Increased capacity of our Biosafety 
MANUFACTURED interconnected  MANUFACTURED Centre of Excellence in Glasgow
Infrastructure, equipment   Efﬁcient and   Improvement of infrastructures through 
and tools    sustainable services
world
+ 50 1984 2.51 20 Enhancing career opportunities through training 
CHF   MIO CHF     MIO %
Improving knowledge through innovation 
R&D expenditure Goodwill and other  Training ratio1 Number of laboratories 
IONrgTaEnLizLaEtioCnTaUl, A L intangible assets WHAT WE DO IENxTpEerLtLizEeC aTnUdA  L (uWsinCgS w)orld class services  Eanmdp eodwuecraitniogn customers through training  
knowledge-based intangibles   innovative solutions
  Testing, inspection, 
certiﬁcation and 
knowledge services 
+89 000 One allow businesses around TESTING CERTIFICATION 28.7 0.36 Protecting the health of employees through  
the world to make  % Operational Integrity excellence and  
Employees  SGS Recruiter Academy informed decisions.  Women in  Total Recordable   well-being programs
HUMAN Our experts enable  HUMAN leadership positions Incident Rate  Reducing social risks by reinforcing human 
The skills and know-how   15 businesses to make  Diverse leaders in a safe  (occurrences per 200,000)  rights compliance
of our employees   positive impacts  working environment Ensuring safety of customers through our  
  SGS Rules for Life on society. INSPECTION KNOWLEDGE vehicles testing services
65 000 +800 000 HOW WE DO IT CHF 1 243 k 83% Supporting communities during Covid-19
Suppliers Customers 8 11 Community investment Satisfaction score  
SOCIAL AND  SOCIAL AND   in our Voice of the 
RELATIONSHIP RELATIONSHIP Customer surveys
Our relationships with our  SGS Community   BUSINESSES INDUSTRIES Meaningful stakeholder 
stakeholders     Program engagement and strong 
6 140+
441 GWh 1.7 MIO m3 122 952 678 Carbon neutral since 2014
Helping mitigate climate change  
Electricity consumed Water consumed BUSINESS PRINCIPLES COUNTRIES Metric tons   EEB program: number  by reducing air pollution 
NThAe TnUatRurAalL resources   422 GWh NCaArTbUonR nAeLutrality, limited   of CO2e tohf eb upirlodginrgams under  Manidn ipmroiztiencgt irnegs othuerc een dveirpolnemtioenn  t
  waste and wastewater
  Fuel consumed
1 % of total employment cost spent on training *  Alternative Performance Measures (APM), refer to the ‘2020 Full Year APM’ document
OUR GLOBAL DRIVERS OUR VALUE TO SOCIETY
SSGGSS |  2| 02200 I2nt0e gCraoterdp Aonrnauatle R eSpuorsttainability Report SGS | 2020 Integrated Annual Report
9
Key trends – our changing world
102-15
Read more about:
Cybersecurity on page 43
Sustainability and climate on page 67
Natural resources on page 76
Health and wellness on page 51
We have identified 12 societal megatrends that are having the biggest impact on 
the testing, inspection and certification sector. We integrate these factors into our 
long-term strategic thinking and development of our business and services.
1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6.
CONNECTIVITY  MOBILITY  CYBERSECURITY  SUSTAINABILITY & CLIMATE  NATURAL RESOURCES  NUTRITION 
According to the World Economic  Mobility is an area that is set to change  By 2021, cybercrime will cost the world  We are facing a climate emergency.  The earth’s finite natural resources are  According to the World Health 
Forum, access to the internet has  rapidly in the coming years, with  $6 trillion1, as a business falls victim to  11% of the world’s population is  being used up at an alarming rate. For  Organization 1.9 billion adults are 
doubled since 2010. While not everyone  accelerated investment in technological  ransomware every 11 seconds. In the  currently vulnerable to the impact from  the first time ever, in 2020 global use  overweight or obese4, while 462 million 
has access – even in some of the world’s  innovations that continue to disrupt the  face of growing threats, data protection  climate change2 such as droughts,  of natural resources reached 100 billion  are underweight. Nutrition is critical to 
biggest economies such as India and  automotive industry. These include  and information security are a top priority  floods, heat waves, extreme weather  tons per year.3 Of all the minerals, fossil  health and development; people with 
China – and there is still a significant gap  autonomous driving, electric vehicles,  for businesses around the world. events and a rise in sea-levels. Business  fuels, metals and biomass used each  adequate nutrition are more productive, 
between access for populations in cities  ridesharing services and the prospect  and communities are being tasked by  year, just 8.6% are cycled back into the  which enhances their chances of 
and rural areas, the gap is closing.  of hydrogen-powered vehicles. governments to develop actionable  circular economy. The philosophy of  gradually breaking out of poverty. 
Previously untapped markets, such as  strategies that reduce their impact on  ‘reduce, reuse, recycle’ has never been  The public is increasingly demanding 
in Central Africa, are seeing significant  climate change, while supporting new  more critical, and a global move to a  from businesses information on the 
growth in access. Machines are also  demographic structures and securing  circular economy is increasingly seen  nutritional value of the foods they eat.
increasingly interconnected, as the  the supply of resources. as an imperative.
Internet of Things continues its rapid 
growth and smartphones get smarter. 
In 2020, the restrictions of Covid-19 
made connectivity all the more critical.
7. 8. 9. 10. 11. 12.
HEALTH & WELLNESS  INDUSTRY 4.0  URBANIZATION  RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION  GOVERNMENT  CITIZENS 
Around the world, health and well-being  The world is undergoing a transformation  More than half of the world’s population  62% of consumers want companies  Regulations set by governments across  Covid-19 has enhanced people’s trust in 
have become central life goals for people  in the way products are produced, due  lives in metropolitan areas. While this  to take a stand on issues like  the world reflect policy priorities around  institutions – businesses, organizations, 
across generations and consumer  to the digitalization of manufacturing.  urbanization enables increased  sustainability, transparency and fair  issues such as climate change, town  and governments6 – as the public looks 
demographics. In 2020, Covid-19  Known as Industry 4.0, this new era is  productivity, the need for resources  employment practices.5 This has  planning, chemical safety and nutrition  to them for protection. 75% of the public 
prompted a global push to protect  made possible by networks of machines  and space impacts the economy,  led to increased market demand for  labeling. The amount of regulation has  says they accept government lockdowns 
citizens from the dangers of the  that are digitally connected through  environment and quality of life.  traceability and transparency across  increased with the Covid-19 pandemic,  to beat the pandemic.7
pandemic and overall awareness of  cyberphysical systems, the Internet  Innovation in areas such as smart  the supply chain. with businesses being required to 
health and wellness issues increased. of Things and the Internet of Systems,  cities and smart mobility are helping to  comply with new requirements ranging 
creating and sharing information often  advance economic growth and improve  from minimum standards for Personal 
without human involvement. infrastructure and community services.  Protective Equipment like masks to 
While the Covid-19 lockdowns saw an  cleaning protocols for public spaces.
impact on urban centers, overall the 
urbanization trend is likely to continue.
1. Source: www.lexology.com – 2. Source: www.conservation.org – 3. Source: www.circle-economy.com – 4. Source: who.int
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report 5. Source: www.accenture.com – 6. Source: www.accenture.com – 7. Source: www.edelman.com
10
Sustainability governance
102-15
102-19
102-20
102-26
102-32
Sustainability is one of our six  SUSTAINABILITY STEERING COMMITTEE
MANAGING SUSTAINABILITY ACROSS SGS GROUP
Business Principles, alongside 
Integrity, Health & Safety,  GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE  
(BOARD OF DIRECTORS)
Leadership, Respect, and 
–  Assists the Board in defining the Group policies and strategies relating to sustainability, 
Quality and Professionalism.  Frankie Ng 
including matters relevant to the Group reputation and non-financial risks.
CEO
These are the fundamental, overarching 
beliefs and behaviors that guide all our 
decisions. Each has an associated Policy 
Statement that clearly defines our commitments.  NORTH EAST ASIA FINANCE AFRICA & WESTERN EUROPE
Our sustainability commitments are further  Helmut Chik  Dominik de Daniel  Fabrice Egloff 
OPERATIONS   SUSTAINABILITY 
defined through a more detailed suite of  COO CFO COO
COUNCIL STEERING COMMITTEE
Operational Policies, each of which adds clarity 
to key areas of sustainability within SGS. –  Takes top-level  Led by CEO. Comprises 14 COOs, EVPs, 
strategy forward SVPs (all businesses, regions, functions)
Underpinning the delivery of our sustainability  –  Reviews sustainability management
strategy is a strong governance structure.  SOUTH & CENTRAL AMERICA MINERALS HUMAN RESOURCES –  Agrees core programs and targets
The Governance and Sustainability Committee  Luis Felipe Elias  Derick Govender  José María  
COO EVP Hernández-Sampelayo 
assists the Board in defining the Group policies 
SVP
and strategies relating to sustainability, including 
matters relevant to the Group reputation and 
non-financial risks.
The SGS Operations Council takes the overall 
CONSUMER & RETAIL CERTIFICATION & BUSINESS  LEGAL & COMPLIANCE
strategy forward, approving and implementing 
Charles Ly Wa Hoi  ENHANCEMENT Olivier Merkt  CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY TEAM
more detailed strategies, policies and targets  EVP Jeffrey McDonald  SVP
through all operations across the Group.  EVP –  Contributes to SGS sustainability strategy –  Embeds sustainability throughout  
Led by our Chief Executive Officer and  –  Proposes appropriate approaches  the Group
comprising 14 Chief Operating Officers,  and targets –  Aligns to the SGS purpose-driven 
Executive Vice Presidents and Senior Vice  –  Liaises with external stakeholders leadership model
Presidents from across all our businesses, 
NORTH AMERICA COMMUNICATIONS,  SOUTH EAST ASIA & PACIFIC
regions and functions, our Sustainability Steering 
Stephen Nolan  SUSTAINABILITY AND  Malcolm Reid 
Committee supports the Operations Council.  COO INVESTOR RELATIONS COO
They review sustainability management and  Toby Reeks 
SVP
agree core programs and targets.
AFFILIATES
–  Oversees local-level   –  Reports on Sustainability performance, 
initiatives (largest countries) programs and metrics to the Corporate 
OIL, GAS & CHEMICALS DIGITAL & INNOVATION Sustainability Team
Alim Saidov  Siddi Wouters 
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report EVP SVP
11
Risk
102-15
102-29
102-30
102-31
In every country in which  ASSESSING AND MITIGATING   The risk combination that makes up the score is 
RESPONSIBILITIES
NON-FINANCIAL RISKS weighted as follows: eco-political (40%), social 
we operate, we are exposed to 
At SGS, non-financial risk management is a   (35%) and environmental (20%). Following this 
different risks. If properly assessed  BOARD OF DIRECTORS Group-wide endeavour. We treat our non-financial  macro assessment, countries are identified  
and managed, these risks can  ✓  Integration of risk management into key business  risks in the same way as financial risks and  as high-, medium- and low-risk, for further,  
planning processes
incorporate our risk analysis into our materiality  more in-depth assessment.
be mitigated and even turned 
assessments. (See page 15)
RISK MANAGEMENT OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE (RMOC) This year, the tool has been updated to include 
into opportunities, which can 
Chaired by CEO – Includes executive  Integrated within the financial risk strategy,  risks such as discrimination and data protection, 
then bring more value to society. representatives, including the CFO, CCO and CIO,  our affiliates, local business lines and operations  and risks associated with pandemics, those related 
and operational function representatives, including  can assess potential risks through our group  to Covid-19. Even though, by definition, pandemics 
HR, OI and Sustainability
Governance Risk and Compliance platform –  have a global scope, risks linked to potential 
RISK STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE  ✓  Manages the ERM framework ANTARES –and, should they occur, put in place  closures of workplaces and schools, restriction 
The Group employs a comprehensive approach  ✓  Facilitates the continuous improvement of  actions to mitigate them at a local level.  in internal movement or border closures due to 
to identifying and articulating risks to the business,  capabilities around managing priority risks the current Covid-19 crisis have been analysed 
supported by our Risk Management framework,  ✓  Guided by risk management goals, objectives and  We also take a top-down approach, carrying out  on a country basis.
which integrates a broad array of risk categories  policies, protects and enhances the SGS business annual assessments of future global risks to the 
directly into the management process.  ✓  Meets twice annually and additionally if required,  Company, at Group level. In order to do so, we use  In 2020 we have focused on developing our new 
reporting to the Board of Directors a sustainability macro risk assessment model that  non-financial risk strategy, which we will deploy 
The framework is overseen by the SGS Risk 
analyses economic, political, social, environmental  in 2021. Through this strategy, we will streamline 
Management Oversight Committee, which is  RISK MANAGEMENT, INTERNAL CONTROLS  and regulatory risks (see page 12) across our  the combination of the results of our macro-risk 
chaired by our CEO and comprises executive  & PROCESS EXCELLENCE FUNCTION
supply chain (through our countries spend) and  assessment together with the local assessment 
members and representatives from a range of  ✓  Aligns risk program with SGS goals,  own operations (through our countries revenue). of affiliates. This will allow us to work with those 
departments across SGS including HR, OI and  objectives and strategic direction and  countries most exposed to non-financial risks to 
Sustainability. It also provides for designated  evaluates stakeholder expectations Thanks to this desk assessment tool, we can 
better identify the most significant risks and ensure 
‘Risk Champions’ in each region where we  ✓  Implements the SGS Governance, Risk and  allocate a potential grade of risk, from 1 (low risk) 
that appropriate mitigation plans are in place.
operate, who own risk in their jurisdiction. Compliance (GRC) platform (ANTARES) to 5 (high risk), by topic and by country. 
Responsibility for the integration of risk management  CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY FUNCTION
into key business planning processes rests with our  SUSTAINABILITY RISK ASSESSMENT PROCESS
✓  Develop and maintain program to integrate  
Board of Directors and Executive Management.  non-financial risk into Risk Management  
framework BUSINESS LINES, FUNCTIONS & AFFILIATES CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY TEAM
✓  Define non-financial risk categories
Please see page 46 for information on  ✓  Run macro-risk analysis 
how we manage risk in our supply chain
ANTARES GOVERNANCE RISK & COMPLIANCE   MACRO RISK ASSESSMENT
Please see page 42 for information  
(GRC) PLATFORM
on human rights
Please see page 68 for information   EVALUATION OF RISKS
on climate change
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
12
Risk
 continued 102-15
102-29
102-30
102-31
205-1
NON-FINANCIAL MACRO RISK ASSESSMENT POTENTIAL SUSTAINABILITY RISKS IDENTIFIED
DIRECT OPERATIONS
Our non-financial macro risk  ECONOMIC & POLITICAL RISKS
Figures represent % of revenue
assessment model analyzes economic, 
– Government instability
political, social and environmental risks  – Policy instability Environmental risk Economic risk Social risk Total sustainability risk
across 220 geographies and includes 
– State failure
our own employees, suppliers,  2 46 2 58 63 1 56
– Recession
indigenous people, migrant labor and 
– Inflation
local communities. 
– Currency depreciation
By introducing our revenue generated  – Capital transfer
and spend per country into the risk  – Sovereign default
assessment process, we assess our  – Under-development
potential sustainability risks across  – Tax issues
all the countries where we operate.  – Corruption
– Infrastructural disruption 37
More than 50 non-financial risks are 
– Energy security 40 43
covered, including natural hazards and  52
– Cybersecurity commitment
business continuity, climate change, 
– Data protection
water stress and sanitation, carbon 
– Regulatory
pricing regimes, health and safety,  SUPPLY CHAIN
unemployment and corruption. ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS Figures represent % of spend
SOCIAL RISKS – Physical exposure to natural hazards Environmental risk Economic risk Social risk Total sustainability risk
– Water stress
– Conflict prevalence – Climate change vulnerability 2 47 1 58 64 1 56
– Socioeconomic vulnerability
– Environmental health
– Child labor
– Drought
– Modern slavery
– Ecosystem vitality
– Vulnerable migrant labor
– Environmental sustainability
– Labor strikes
– Environmental awareness
– Security
– Environmental compliance
– Exposure to epidemics
– Carbon pricing
– Discrimination 36
– Workforce skills
– Health & Safety awareness 51 41 43
– Income disparity
– Knowledge intensiveness
Low risk Medium risk High risk
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
13
Engaging our stakeholders
102-21
102-40
102-42
102-43
102-44
Maintaining continuous dialog with 
our stakeholders is critical to our 
long-term success. The valuable 
insights we gain enable us to align 
our sustainability initiatives to 
stakeholder requirements and 
ensure we deliver value to society. 
CUSTOMERS CONSUMERS EMPLOYEES
Every three years, we carry out a stakeholder 
survey specifically on the topic of sustainability. 
WHY WE ENGAGE WHY WE ENGAGE WHY WE ENGAGE
We then evaluate the most important topics by 
Our customers are at the heart of everything  Our services ensure that consumers trust  Our people are essential to our business. 
stakeholder group and SGS region. This analysis 
we do. It is important for us to understand  the products they buy. Understanding our  Discussing performance and providing 
contributes to our materiality assessment 
whether we achieve our goals to make  end-consumers tells us if our services  training and opportunities helps to keep 
process and ultimately enables us to develop 
their businesses more efficient, profitable  support SGS’ reputation for delivering  our people motivated and engaged. 
our Business Materiality Matrix. (See page 15)
and sustainable. confidence and assurance.
HOW WE ENGAGE
HOW WE ENGAGE HOW WE ENGAGE – Global employee engagement 
– One-to-one meetings  – Certification and product labeling  program, CATALYST 
– SGS hosted conferences, seminars  – Direct marketing and communication  – SGS intranet portal 
and webinars  with certain B2C products – SGS Inside newsletter 
– Customer surveys, e.g.  – Add Value with Lëss – internal initiative 
Voice of the Customer  KEY TOPICS DISCUSSED aimed at increasing efficiency 
– Ethical behavior 
– White papers  – Training programs, videos and 
– Adaptation and mitigation  
– Customer portal eLearning modules 
of climate change 
– SHINE Onboarding 
KEY TOPICS DISCUSSED – Respecting human rights 
– Customer relationship management  and ethical labor practices  – Employee Representation Councils (e.g. 
European Works Council–Euro Forum)
– Respecting human rights and ethical 
labor practices  KEY TOPICS DISCUSSED
– Data privacy and protection – Ethical behavior 
– Cybersecurity  – Respecting human rights and ethical 
– Ethical behavior labor practices 
– Health & safety of employees 
and contractors 
– Talent attraction and retention
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
14
Engaging our stakeholders
 continued 102-21
102-40
102-42
102-43
102-44
SUPPLIERS COMMUNITIES AND THE PLANET GOVERNMENTS AND INDUSTRIES INVESTORS
WHY WE ENGAGE WHY WE ENGAGE WHY WE ENGAGE WHY WE ENGAGE
Our suppliers support us in the smooth  Our communities and the planet both  Governments and industries are often  Our investors are vital to our ongoing success 
delivery of our services. In turn, we need  affect our business and could be affected  moving in the same direction that we are.  and growth. We constantly review market 
to understand how we are adding value  by our operations. We evaluate whether  We need a clear picture of how we contribute  analysis, and aim to be assessed as both a 
to their businesses. our sustainability endeavors are recognized  to driving innovation, promoting sustainable  sound investment and a sustainable business.
as being among the very best – both  development and shaping markets.
HOW WE ENGAGE regionally and in the TIC industry. HOW WE ENGAGE
– Supplier self-assessment  HOW WE ENGAGE – Annual General Meeting 
– Supplier Code of Conduct  HOW WE ENGAGE – SGS hosted conferences, seminars  – SGS Investor Days 
– Annual community survey to measure  and webinars 
– Supplier audits – Meetings with investors and analysts 
the impact of community investment  – Membership meetings and events 
– Responses to analyst questionnaires
KEY TOPICS DISCUSSED – White papers  – White papers 
– Ethical behavior  – One-to-one meetings with NGOs  KEY TOPICS DISCUSSED
– Data privacy and protection  and responses to questionnaires KEY TOPICS DISCUSSED – Ethical behavior
– Ethical behavior
– Respecting human rights  – Risk management and business continuity
and ethical labor practices  K– ERYe TsOpePcICtiSn gD hISuCmUaSnS rEigDhts  – Risk management and business continuity  – Good practices in corporate governance
– Cybersecurity and ethical labor practices – Cybersecurity  – Cybersecurity
– Data privacy and protection 
– Adaptation and mitigation   – ESG performance and reporting
of climate change  – Services that support our customers’ 
– Local community investment support  sustainability ambitions
– Ethical behavior 
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
15
Materiality
102-15
102-21
102-29
102-31
102-44
102-46
102-47
We carry out an extensive analysis of various inputs – including megatrends 
BUSINESS MATERIALITY MATRIX
(see page 9), the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, 
our stakeholders’ interests and concerns and risks and opportunities.  GH
HI
This enables us to determine which are material to our business and our 
stakeholders, and their relative level of importance. We then use this  1
3
deep understanding to shape our strategy, our ambitions and our Key 
5 4 2
Performance Indicators (KPIs) under each pillar of our sustainability  RS
E
D
strategy (Professional Excellence, People, Environment, and Community).  OL 7 6
H 20
KE 21 9
A 12 11
MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT BUSINESS MATERIALITY MATRIX ST 14
Although we do not ordinarily conduct  Having conducted this consultation exercise, we  TO  24 13 10
E 
a material assessment on an annual basis,  then mapped the topics onto a matrix, showing their  NC 17 19
in 2020 we decided to update our analysis  position relative to each other, and how critical each  RTA 25 16
to evaluate the impact of Covid-19 on our  one is to our business. The visual representation of  PO 15 20
stakeholders’ expectations.  the importance of topics to stakeholders in relation  M
I
to their impact on SGS is a powerful analytical tool.  18 22
Based on 2019 results, we carried out an  
in-depth stakeholder engagement exercise,  The six topics that are most important  8
consulting with over 4 000 stakeholders in  to the organization are as follows: 
112 countries (including customers, employees, 
W
suppliers, investors, non-government  1  Cybersecurity  O
L
organizations and sustainability professionals) 
to evaluate the importance of each topic.  2  Data privacy and protection  LOW IMPACT ON SGS HIGH
At the same time, our Operations Council  3  Ethical behavior  1 Cybersecurity 10 Customer relationship management 19 Reducing and managing waste
evaluated the potential impact these topics 
2 Data privacy and protection 11 Diversity in the executive team 20 Responsible use of materials
could have on SGS. The whole process has  4  Health & Safety 
3 Ethical behavior 12 Diversity and inclusion 21 Sustainable procurement
given us a deep understanding of the most 
material topics for the Group.  5  Risk Management and 4 Health & Safety 13 Employee engagement and consultation 22 Tax strategy
5 Risk management 14 Executive compensation linked to sustainability 23 Training and development
6  Talent Attraction and retention  6 Talent attraction and retention 15 Freedom of Association 24 Water footprint
7 Adaption and mitigation of climate change 16 Innovation in services and operations 25 Well-being and work life balance
These are considered key topics, and have helped 
8 Biodiversity 17 Local community
to shape our sustainability strategy going forward. 
Although less material, all other topics remain an  9 Corporate Governance 18 Preventing air pollution Most important topics
essential part of our sustainability management 
systems. We systematically re-evaluate them 
to determine whether they have become more  The SGS material topics glossary provides a description  
of each of our material topics on page 87
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report material to the organization.
16
Our sustainability strategy
Various factors influence both our business  OUR PILLARS
goals and our sustainability strategy. These 
include megatrends (see page 9), the United 
Nations Sustainable Development Goals 
our stakeholders’ interests and concerns, 
and the risks and opportunities for our 
PROFESSIONAL EXCELLENCE OUR PEOPLE ENVIRONMENT COMMUNITY
business today and tomorrow.
The trust we build is a critical  We create a safe, diverse and  Our commitment to achieving  We seek to create a positive, 
component of the value we deliver  inclusive workplace in which our  sustainable growth while managing  measurable and lasting impact on the 
Our Sustainability Strategy is built  Global drivers influence both  to our customers, and to our  employees are empowered to  our impact on the environment is  local communities in which we 
on four pillars: Professional Excellence,  our business goals and our  position as a global market leader.  succeed and grow. Offering flexibility,  expressed in our carbon neutrality  operate. As well as welcoming local 
People, Environment and Community.  sustainability strategy. These  In everything we do, we are  mobility and opportunity, we treat  strategy, the way we use resources  talent, we promote a company culture 
A strategy, Ambitions and Key  drivers are the megatrends, the  committed to maintaining the  everyone fairly and with respect.   and the work we do to deliver  of giving back through projects that 
Performance Indicators (KPIs) are set  SDGs, our stakeholders’ interests  highest levels of professional    sustainable value for society. We also  focus on education, empowerment 
for each one, based on the outcome of  and concerns, and the risks and  excellence, integrity and quality. support our customers in improving  and environmental sustainability, in 
our analysis of the inputs mentioned  opportunities for our business  their own environmental performance. alignment with the United Nations 
above. These are supported by  today and tomorrow. Sustainable Development Goals.
Group-wide policies, global programs 
CAPITALS AND PROGRAMS CAPITALS AND PROGRAMS CAPITALS AND PROGRAMS CAPITALS AND PROGRAMS
and local initiatives through which 
we add value to society. FINANCIAL FINANCIAL FINANCIAL FINANCIAL
MANUFACTURED HUMAN SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP
NATURAL CAPITAL FINANCIAL CAPITAL ––IN  TSWEuLosLrtEladCi nCTaUlbaAsleLs   pSreorcvuicreemsent strategy ––   HEwmeoampltleohny ae inned  ls esaaatdifseeftraysc hptiiropon ga:n rCadma otsathlyesrt   –N–  AECTnUavrRbirAooLnn mneeunttraall iptya rptnroegrsrahmips –––    CSEmuosmptalmoinyuaenbeiti lvyito ypl urtornajteienceitnrsigng 
diversity programs
–  Training and development programs –  Sustainable mobility strategy  –  Social projects through 
ATILOERN SDHNIAP  LCAAIPCIOTAL TOOU SRO VCAILEUTEY  MLAANTIUPFAAC CDTEUR –H–––S–     OUDIHHICMnnIuuittAAgeemmiLNggt aaaArrliinn ttNa  yyrrnD  iippggd Rrrhh ooiEttnggssLnrr  AapoaaTwrmmvoIaOatssterNioecSnntHi eopIsnPrsograms –I–N  TASEudLsdLt EaVCianTlauUbeAi lwiLtyit htr aLiënsinsg initiative –––I–N    TEpCGSErnuaroLeesrLgbetrEragonaCiyn nmBT  aEsUubefAifiilrldiLvctiiyince getnr scsayein riivnni gcBeusildings  –  SCGomS pAacnayd egmiviyng
S
–  Human rights protection
HUMAN CAPITAL INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL –  Human rights awareness SuVsataluinea tboi lsitoyc riiestky  mcaalncauglaetmione nt
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report Read more on page 37 Read more on page 51 Read more on page 67 Read more on page 77
17
Our SDG contribution
Our 2020 Sustainability Ambitions 
REACH SERVICES
are closely linked to the United 
We offer a comprehensive suite of services 
Nations Sustainable Development  to help our customers comply with their 
Goals (SDGs), ensuring that we  obligations under REACH – the European 
Union’s Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation 
directly support them through 
and Restriction of Chemicals regulation, 
our services, operations and  which addresses the production and use 
of chemical substances, and their potential 
supply chain. 
impacts on both human health and the 
environment. Our services range from initial 
Mapping our contribution enables us to create 
REACH registration to consulting, testing, 
aligned strategic plans, allocate resources 
auditing and verification services to support 
and develop associated local management 
ongoing compliance. 
and reporting processes. 
The following pages show some examples  ISO 45001 SERVICES
of how we contribute to the SDGs: We provide awareness training to help our 
customers understand the requirements of 
the occupational health & safety management 
standard ISO 45001, Annex SL, Risk Based 
Thinking and Empowering Leadership. 
On request, we can provide a gap analysis, 
which can be used to highlight the changes 
that will need to be made for migration from 
GOOD HEALTH   Examples of our contribution OHSAS 18001 to ISO 45001 certification.
AND WELLBEING PPE TESTING
SYNLAB ANALYTICS & SERVICES (A&S)
In 2020, we embarked on testing of Personal 
HOW WE CONTRIBUTE Protective Equipment, supporting the provision  We are acquiring the analytics and services 
We develop and deliver programs that  of items such as masks, gloves and gowns  unit of leading European medical diagnostic 
support the good health and well-being  to keep people around the world safe from  services provider, SYNLAB. This acquisition 
of people not only within our business, but  Covid-19.  will enable us to make a contribution to the 
also for our customers and communities.  world of environmental, food testing and 
This was particularly critical in 2020, in  BIOSAFETY LAB tribology services.
light of the Covid-19 pandemic.
We increased capacity of our SGS Biosafety 
Center of Excellence in Glasgow to enable fast-
tracked testing of Covid-19 vaccine candidates. 
By developing new quality control methods, we 
ensured safety standards. This will help people 
to resume regular work and social activities, 
returning to a ‘new normal’. See our film on PPE testing
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
18
Our SDG contribution
 continued
Examples of our contribution GENDER  Our goal is to have 30% of leadership 
SGS ACADEMY EQUALITY positions held by women, and, to this end, 
we run local programs aimed at increasing 
Through the SGS Academy we provide  the number of women in managerial and 
professional training to our customers, which  HOW WE CONTRIBUTE leadership roles. 28.7% of our CEO-3 level 
contributes to their knowledge development.  Our commitment to inclusion and diversity  positions are filled by women. (See page 59)
Our courses cover a wide range of topics,  includes working towards gender equality 
from health & safety to leadership and  throughout our business. AUSTRALIA DIVERSITY STRATEGY 
process management.
Examples of our contribution Gender is one of the five focus areas 
Graduates gain the skills and knowledge  of our diversity and inclusion strategy at 
WOMEN IN LEADERSHIP
to stay up to date with industry regulations  SGS Australia and where we have achieved 
and best practice, giving them the  We strive to promote talent internally  gender balance on the Operations Council.  
opportunity to advance their careers. and encourage women to assume senior  (See page 60)
leadership positions. 
COMMUNITY INITIATIVES
Through our community education projects, 
we seek to improve access to all levels of 
schooling, and provide employment training 
schemes and skills workshops. SGS Academy 
for the Community provides high-quality 
technical training, complimentary, to people in 
our communities earning less than the average 
living wage, to improve their qualifications 
and enhance their employability. (See page 79)
QUALITY 
EDUCATION
HOW WE CONTRIBUTE
We have created a range of initiatives that 
seek to provide educational opportunities 
for our employees, suppliers and people in 
the communities in which we work. In 2020, 
we delivered 4.3 million of training hours 
to our employees. 
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
19
Our SDG contribution
 continued
Examples of our contribution INDUSTRY INNOVATION  breakdowns. Working to achieve this status 
SAFER WORKPLACE  AND INFRASTRUCTURE not only benefits us but also our customers, 
for example through higher testing quality 
Safety in the workplace, which we call  and quicker turnaround times. (See page 50)
‘operational integrity’ (OI), is a top priority.  HOW WE CONTRIBUTE
The global Covid-19 pandemic required us  We contribute to building resilient infrastructure,  ‘NEXT NORMAL’ SOLUTIONS
to respond quickly and creatively to introduce  promoting inclusive and sustainable 
We are supporting customers and communities 
new measures to protect the health and  industrialization and fostering innovation through 
through the Covid-19 pandemic with a range  
well-being of our employees, such as  the services we provide. Our services and 
of innovative solutions, including supporting 
educating them on safe behaviors, facilitating  innovations are helping the world become 
medical research and collaborating with partners 
remote working, and providing testing and  more interconnected.
on vaccine development. (See page 26)
tracking services. 
Examples of our contribution
We have 15 Rules for Life (life-saving  EDGE
REMOTE TESTING
principles) that apply to all employees,  Excellence in Design for Greater Efficiencies 
contractors and others working on behalf of  Using the digital solution QiiQ, we are enabling  (EDGE) is an innovation of the International 
SGS. All employees across operations and  remote inspections of exporters’ shipments.  Finance Corporation (IFC) that helps property 
corporate sites are provided with training on  The inspector and customer both connect to the  developers create resource-efficient buildings 
site standard operating procedures, and are  app and together conduct a visual of the goods  quickly, easily and affordably. We are the one-
given regular training sessions on Group OI  for shipment. (See case study on page 28 of  stop-shop provider for all EDGE green building 
Management Systems and Rules for Life.  2020 Integrated Annual Report) certification requirements. This is one of many 
Energy Efficiency in Buildings certificates 
DECENT WORK AND  SOCIAL AUDITS SERVICES  ECUSTOMS
we provide, along with others such as LEED, 
ECONOMIC GROWTH 
Our social audits measure an organization’s  Using software developed inhouse, we provide  WELL, BREEAM and DGNB.
performance against a range of factors helping  a well known oil and gas company with a 24/7 
HOW WE CONTRIBUTE to meet customer and consumer expectations. declaration service, enabling them to fuel 
Higher levels of productivity and technological  their containerships at sea while fully complying 
innovation are essential to achieving sustained  HUMAN RIGHTS INTERNAL PROGRAMS with customs and excise taxation regulations. 
economic growth. We actively work towards  A human rights eLearning training is available  (See page 32)
providing productive and safe employment of  as an SGS Academy course to all employees 
men and women in the communities in which  around the world, in their local languages.  WORLD CLASS SERVICES METHODOLOGY
we work. The training covers topics such as: child  Our World Class Services (WCS) methodology 
labor; freedom from discrimination; equality  is a structured approach in our laboratories to 
and respect; human rights governance;  reduce organizational waste and losses, and 
and reporting human rights breaches. to bring long-term improvements to our safety, 
organization, quality, maintenance and logistics. 
It is designed to enable us to achieve zero 
accidents, zero waste, zero defects and zero 
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
20
Our SDG contribution
 continued
RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTION  CLIMATE   CARBON SERVICES
AND CONSUMPTION ACTION Our laboratory facilities provide round-the-clock 
certification and verification services, to deliver 
fast test responses to enable our customers to 
HOW WE CONTRIBUTE HOW WE CONTRIBUTE
confirm their off-setting targets. We also offer 
We actively promote responsible production  We are committed to a carbon neutrality 
a range of assessments to help customers 
and consumption, both within our own  strategy that is helping tackle climate change 
develop a plan for reducing their emissions. 
operations and in our supply chains, as well as  and facilitating the transition to a low carbon 
These services support compliance with 
through the services we provide, for example  economy, as well as helping our customers 
GHG Verification against corporate voluntary 
helping customers to choose products that  to reduce their emissions, for example 
schemes (14064-1, GHG protocols); EU ETS, 
have been made responsibly through our  through assessment and certifications. 
Corsia; Product Carbon Footprint (PAS 2050, 
certification programs.
Examples of our contribution 14067, GHG protocols for products); and 
Examples of our contribution Carbon Neutrality (PAS2060).
REDUCING OUR CO2 EMISSIONS
SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT
We are actively reducing CO  emissions 
2
We are taking several steps to achieve  across our value chain, including our 
sustainable supply chain management,  operations and vehicle fleets, and have set 
including embedding sustainability criteria  science-based targets. In the communities 
into our Group-wide Procurement Policy and  where we operate, we have invested in 
into the terms and conditions of our Code of  421 GWh of renewable energy mechanisms.
Conduct. (See page 46) for further details.
Our buildings account for 67% of our global 
Our Transparency-One service captures  energy consumption. Through our Energy 
AGRICULTURE AND FOOD SERVICES
both supply chain mapping data (transparency)  Efficiency in Buildings program, we are 
Sustainability in agriculture is of increasing  and operational data (traceability), to give  reducing energy consumption at source. 
importance. We offer a range of services  businesses complete control of the data flow  (See page 69)
that reduce risk, ensure quality and improve  within their supply chain, providing them with 
productivity. These include solutions for  greater protection against the risks inherent  GREEN BONDS
precision farming, water, soil and seed  in supply chains.
As an ‘approved verifier’ under the Climate 
and crop. 
Bond Standards and Certification Scheme of 
INTERNAL AWARENESS OF THE IMPORTANCE 
the Climate Bonds Initiative (CBI), SGS Hong 
TRACEABILITY SERVICES  OF CONSERVING RESOURCES
Kong is qualified to provide green or climate 
Our traceability services enable customers  We run a number of awareness initiatives for  bonds verification to bond issuers with projects 
to trace their products back to source,  employees, aimed at promoting sustainability  in a range of sectors, including solar, wind and 
know where raw materials and components  and responsible consumption of resources  low carbon buildings. (See page 36)
originate, and verify supply chain risk.  such as energy and water.
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
21
Sustainability Ambitions 2020
In 2020, we completed our  OUR PERFORMANCE
Sustainability Ambitions 2020 
2014* 2018 2019 2020 2020 TARGET
strategy, despite the challenges 
PROFESSIONAL EXCELLENCE
of Covid-19. In 2021, we are 
Deliver measurable sustainable value to society (CHF MIO) 4 026 6 176 6 650 6 579 N/A
launching an ambitious new 
integrated sustainability strategy  Link management incentive plan to sustainability Achieved N/A
which will once again raise the 
industry bar.
2020 has been the last year of our  OUR PEOPLE
2020 Sustainability Ambitions with 
the achievement of the majority of   Maintain a natural turnover rate of no more than 15% 12.8 14.6 13.6 10.1 <15.0
our targets. 
30% of leadership positions will be held by women – 26.4 26.7 28.7 >30.0
Once again, we have delivered measurable 
value to society and, in 2020, we  Reduce our Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) by 50%1 0.6 0.25 0.26 0.23 <0.30
have linked our Long Term Incentive 
Reduce our Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) by 50%1 1.11 0.41 0.44 0.36 <0.55
plan to sustainability indicators.
We have also achieved the majority  ENVIRONMENT
of our People’s targets and will continue 
Reduce our annual CO  emissions (per FTE) by 20%1  2.6 1.7 1.7 1.4 <2.1
working in the coming years to improve  2
(CO  tons/FTE)
women’s presence in leadership positions. 2
We had already achieved our  Reduce our annual CO2 emissions (by revenue) by 20%1  38.88 27.6 26 21.9 < 34.0
Environmental targets and, despite  (CO2 tons/M CHF)
Covid-19, we managed to maintain our 
community investment above target.
We will be announcing our new  COMMUNITY
2030 Strategy in 2021.
Increase our investment in communities around the world by 30%1,  738 1 384 1 331 1 243 >959
with a focus on volunteering (thousands CHF)
1. Against 2014 baseline
*  2014 baseline year of our ambition
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
22
Quantifying our value to society
103-1-3
WHY WE MEASURE OUR VALUE TO SOCIETY
EXAMPLE OF HOW WE CREATE VALUE TO SOCIETY
We recognize that our long-term success 
depends not just on our ability to generate 
profit, but on our ability to deliver sustainable 
value to all our stakeholders across the whole 
value chain. 
Traditional reporting that focuses on financials  SGS WATER OPTIMIZATION SOLUTIONS 
provides only a partial picture of wealth and 
performance. There is an increasing recognition 
for the need for companies to provide a more 
complete view of their value to society, taking 
into account their impact on the environment 
and society. 
HOW WE MEASURE OUR VALUE TO SOCIETY
At SGS, we have developed an assessment  WATER COMPANY ACTIVITIES LOWER WATER CONSUMPTION  
methodology – our SGS Impact  AND EFFLUENTS
Valuation Framework. 
1  2  3 
We are one of the first companies worldwide  The customer needs water   We provide Water  As a result of our services, there is less 
to translate our non-financial impacts into  to perform their activities Optimization Services water consumption and less effluents
a monetary value and to provide such a 
comprehensive assessment. By putting 
a monetary value on non-financial impacts,  VALUE TO SOCIETY
we are able to comprehensively assess 
our contribution to society as a whole. 
Fsoolru etixoanms phleel,p w ah ceuns tooumr wera ttoe rm oipntimimizizea ttihoeni r  VALUE TO CUSTOMERS  NATURAL CAPITAL FINANCIAL CAPITAL VALUE TO BROADER SOCIETY
use of water, we are not only helping to  Reduced cost/increased earnings  Biodiversity protection
lrvsoiacswlakurseec rf i ttocoyro   astshnotsedc i ifrepo btoryu lcl usbuitynsi oethonsem.sl p,e iwnrsge  a taonr dea  lmalelsivtoiiag taaedt edw inagte r  SRtirsokn tgmoe iwtri glaicateetinro snsec a atsrosc oiotcpyieartaetde   ATILOERN SDHNIAP  LCAAIPCIOTSAL TOOU SRO VCAILEUTEY  MLAANTIUPFAAC CDTEUR Redduuec ttioo nw oaft emr aslcnaurtcriittyion  
HUMAN CAPITAL INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
23
Quantifying our value to society
 continued 103-1-3
SGS IMPACT VALUATION FRAMEWORK These indicators relate to specific corporate- For example, we know that reducing electricity 
Our SGS Impact Valuation Framework guides  TRADITIONAL INDICATORS OF   level performance indicators collected through  consumption saves money, which is good for 
us in maximizing our positive impacts and  SOCIOECONOMIC CONTRIBUTIONS   our global data-gathering system, such as CO2  business, and it also reduces CO2 emissions, 
minimizing our negative impacts on society. (such as the taxes we pay) emissions, engagement index and investment  which is good for the environment and local 
in research and development, that serve as  communities – creating positive value for both 
The Framework has been developed to meet 
inputs for the model.  SGS and society.
a two-fold purpose: 
For example, the ‘water management’ indicator  Quantifying our value to society helps us to 
– inside SGS (Value to SGS): this is used 
enables us to estimate the positive and negative  identify our strengths and weaknesses on a 
internally to demonstrate the influence 
impacts of our own water consumption (input  micro level, as well as benchmark our overall 
of our sustainability actions in financial 
data), or the reduction in water consumption  macro performance. As we continue to invest 
performance , promoting a culture of 
we help our customers achieve through our  in and refine our methodology, we will create 
informed, holistic decision-making. 
services, on events linked to water scarcity,  a baseline against which to compare future 
– outside SGS (Value to Society): this is  OUR POSITIVE IMPACTS  such as biodiversity protection or malnutrition.  results and assess our year-on-year progress. 
used to measure, in monetary terms,  (such as the impact of our investment  We are confident that this will help us make 
the positive and negative impacts that our  in community programs, employee  Our methodology uses internationally- better decisions and further increase our 
activities have on society. In the future,  training and well-being initiatives) recognized databases, globally accepted  positive impacts on society.
it will give us the potential to enable  impact measurement approaches, and 
better strategic decision-making.  academic research. 
The Integrated Reporting Framework  A GAME-CHANGING APPROACH “ At SGS, we have embarked 
developed by the International Integrated  The results of our assessment guide us in  on a pioneering journey toward 
Reporting Council (IIRC) recognizes six  maximizing our positive impacts and minimizing 
forms of capital on which a business’  our negative impacts, and enable us to make  understanding all the positive 
success depends: financial, manufactured,  better informed decisions.  and negative impacts we create 
intellectual, human, social and relationship,  ANY NEGATIVE IMPACTS 
and natural. (See page 24)  (such as the negative environmental  If employee turnover is higher than optimal,  as a company by quantifying 
for example, this framework demonstrates 
impacts of the waste we generate  our Value to Society. With the 
Our Impact Valuation Framework includes  the financial impact of that turnover in terms of 
or the electricity we consume)
32 indicators that enable us to evaluate  decreased productivity, increased administrative  inclusion of all our services in 
different impacts across these capitals.  costs, and the societal impact caused by the  the calculation, we will soon be 
associated loss of income. SGS can then 
able to measure the significant 
make better decisions regarding what actions 
can be taken to reduce employee turnover  positive footprint SGS has on 
in the future, such as investing in training 
society and act accordingly 
and well-being initiatives.
to continue creating value.”
OUR VALUE TO SOCIETY Across our business, we encourage our 
managers to prioritize double positive actions    María Monasor Denia
that have the potential to add value both    Data and Impact Valuation Manager
to society and SGS. 
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
24
Quantifying our value to society
 continued 103-1-3
THE SGS IMPACT VALUATION FRAMEWORK: CAPITALS AND INDICATORS
FINANCIAL  MANUFACTURED  INTELLECTUAL  HUMAN  SOCIAL AND  NATURAL 
CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL RELATIONSHIP  CAPITAL
CAPITAL
Relates to the pool of cash and  Relates to the inventory of  Consists of intangible and  Relates to the physical and  Covers SGS’ relationships  Comprises the renewable 
cash equivalents that can be used  property, plant, equipment and  knowledge-based assets.  psychological capacity of  and interactions with  and non-renewable natural 
in exchange for other resources  other manufactured goods that  Intellectual inputs include the  individuals (e.g. motivation,  communities, stakeholders,  resources and processes SGS 
(e.g. human capital) that enable  enable SGS business activities  brand, patents and copyrights,  safety or well-being) to undertake  organizations and networks.  needs to operate. Natural inputs 
SGS to successfully compete  and SGS to successfully compete  and employees’ knowledge  market-based employment and  It includes notions like trust,  include air, water, land and 
in the global marketplace. in the global marketplace. of protocols and procedures. to pursue wider aspirations. loyalty and other values. ecosystem health
WE MEASURE KPIs: WE MEASURE KPIs: WE MEASURE KPIs: WE MEASURE KPIs: WE MEASURE KPIs: WE MEASURE KPIs:
✓  Profitability ✓  Asset development  ✓  Training ✓  Health and well- ✓  Local community investment ✓  GHG emissions
✓  Employment costs and maintenance ✓  Knowledge development being management ✓  Customer relationship  ✓  Carbon neutrality
✓  Taxes ✓  Market movements ✓  Employee turnover ✓  Diversity and  management (CRM) and   ✓  Water management
equal opportunities data security
✓  Research and development ✓  Waste management
✓  Salary schemes and benefits ✓  Supplier relationship 
✓  Volunteering management (SRM) ✓  Environmental incidents
✓  Employee engagement ✓  Supplier stress ✓  Air pollution
✓  Overtime ✓  Substandard services ✓  Resource depletion
✓  Land use change
✓  Sickness absence
✓  Occupational safety
✓  Human rights compliance
Read more about Financial  Read more about Manufactured  Read more about Intellectual  Read more about Human  Read more about Social and  Read more about Natural 
capital on page 36 in our  capital on page 46 in our  capital on page 50 in our  capital on page 56 in our  relationship capital on page 64  capital on page 70 in our 
Integrated Annual Report Integrated Annual Report Integrated Annual Report Integrated Annual Report in our Integrated Annual Report Integrated Annual Report
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
25
Quantifying our value to society
 continued 103-1-3
203-2
VALUE TO SOCIETY FROM OUR DIRECT  SGS VALUE TO SOCIETY (MILLION CHF)1
OPERATIONS AND SUPPLY CHAIN
Applying our Impact Valuation Framework 
methodology, in 2020 we calculated that  
our total value to society was +CHF 6 579 MIO. 
The value of our positive benefit to society  
was +CHF 7 380 million. This was primarily  FINANCIAL MANUFACTURED INTELLECTUAL HUMAN SOCIAL AND NATURAL VALUE TO
created through profit generation, the paying  CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL SOCIETY
of taxes and wages, investment in training  CAPITAL
210 (181) 
programs and data security.
49 (321)
We also generated CHF 801 million of negative  536
societal impacts, primarily driven by the 
environmental footprint of our supply chain.
ASSESSING THE VALUE TO SOCIETY 
Our human capital This capital is 6 579
OF OUR SERVICES Our intellectual value is directly positively impacted
capital value is
As well as creating direct value through our  6 286 mostly driven by  in ﬂoutehnecrse,d b, ya mouorng byim thpero wvea yo uwre
operations and supply chain, we also indirectly   our training and risk of having relationships with
development
enable value through our services to customers.  programs human rights local communities,
Indeed, many of our services support other  non-compliances creating trust to The most negative
 in our value chain customers and also impact in this capital
businesses in delivering positive outcomes   and by our  negatively impacted is related to the
for society. Our manufactured suboptimal data due to the risk footprint in the value
capital value on gender equality of suppliers’   chain, specially in
While we do aim to provide a comprehensive  cOapuirt aﬁln raenscuilatsl   mimeparsouvreems ethnet ﬁnancial stress our supply chain Tthoe s tooctaiel tvya olufe
analysis of our value chain, our diverse service  are impacted  of capital assets SGS direct
portfolio and geographic spread make it  by proﬁt,  (directly controlled operations and
extremely complex to evaluate the impact   emrepvloeynmuee,n t   ansdu pthploys ceh oafin o)ur suapcptilvyi tciehsain
our services at a global level. costs and 
taxes paid to 
We are currently developing a methodology for  governments
carrying out this analysis and, once it has been 
finalized and implemented, we expect to see 
a significant increase in our Value to Society. 
Although we are unable to conduct an impact 
valuation across our entire service portfolio 
as yet, we have piloted the impact of relevant 
individual services. In the meantime, this year, 
we evaluated the positive impacts of society  Direct operations 4 374 Direct operations 93 Direct operations 210 Direct operations (83) Direct operations 49 Direct operations (6)
arising specifically from our ‘Next Normal’ 
Supply chain 1 912 Supply chain 443 Supply chain (98) Supply chain (315)
solutions services.
1. V alue to society is calculated using 2019 figures. Within each capital we have identified positive and negative impacts. The values presented in each capital are the result of adding the positive 
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report impacts and subtracting the negative impacts
26
Quantifying our value to society
 continued 103-1-3
VALUE TO SOCIETY OF OUR  BETTER | SAFER | MORE INTERCONNECTED
‘NEXT NORMAL’ SOLUTIONS
Through our ‘Next Normal’ solutions initiative,  ENABLING ORGANIZATIONS TO  Industry specific solutions, such 
we brought together a wide range of solutions,  RESUME ACTIVITY DESPITE COVID-19 as long-term fuel storage monitoring 
both existing and newly developed, to  To support ground-level efforts  and seed and crop solutions, help 
to stop the spread of Covid-19 so  our customers maintain operations 
help our customers mitigate potential risks 
that life can return to normal, we  despite the restrictions. We also 
associated with the pandemic.  provide solutions for disinfection  facilitate ongoing Chartered Quality 
monitoring and approval, Environment,  Institute (CQI)/International Register 
Our ‘Next Normal’ solutions contribute to 
Health & Safety, and testing and  of Certificated Auditors (IRCA) 
the mitigation of both health and business  certification of consumer goods,  certification offering Virtual 
risks associated with Covid-19. Due to the  such as face masks, hand sanitizers  Instructor Led Training (VILT) 
novel nature of the virus, the full impacts  and disinfectants, ventilators and  through our SGS Academy.
medical devices. 
are still unknown. However, a review of 
SHARING EXPERTISE TO 
research literature has enabled us to estimate  We also support customers in  SUPPORT RECOVERY
navigating Covid-19 recovery 
the potential impacts avoided thanks to the  Eradicating a pandemic such as 
milestones through our Certification 
implementation of these solutions.  & Business Enhancement Recovery  Covid-19 takes global collaboration, 
and we are contributing to this effort 
Services and a recover, renew and 
The main impacts we have identified have been:  reinforce program aimed specifically  in several ways. We have made our 
AI platform available to the research 
at the food industry. In the area of life 
– Human capital: the well-being of people  community for free, enabling teams 
sciences, we are using our extensive 
around the globe has been protected,  experience in novel vaccines to offer  on the pandemic research frontline 
to keep up with the large and 
due to the reduced impact of Covid-19  analytical, bioanalytical and clinical 
growing volume of research. We 
on morbidity and mortality;  trial solutions.  engage with our customers through 
– Financial capital: governments and  SERVICES TO ENSURE OPERATIONS  webinars and operational updates 
that keep them informed of new 
individuals have had lower out-of-pocket  ARE MAINTAINED
Covid-19 related guidance and 
medical expenses, and our customers have  Lockdowns and social distancing  regulations. We also joined the ICC 
measures threaten business 
suffered lower productivity losses.  and International SOS in endorsing 
continuity in many ways, and 
ICC AOKpass as the standard in 
Our SGS Impact Valuation Framework enables  we have solutions to many of the  managing Covid-19 compliance 
challenges. Our remote audit 
us to evaluate, in an integrated way, the total  status while protecting personal 
and inspections solutions enable 
value we add to society, beyond purely financial  off-site audits and inspections,  health data. 
returns to SGS. Using the Framework, we  from anywhere in the world.  All these services are helping 
have estimated the total value to society of our  businesses to resume their 
activities, helping people get back 
‘Next Normal’ solutions to be CHF 149 million.
to work, enhancing livelihoods 
CASE STUDY: ‘NEXT NORMAL’ SOLUTIONS – HELPING  and making life better for millions 
OUR CUSTOMERS WEATHER THE STORM across the world.
Read more about our ‘Next Normal’ 
solutions on page 33
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
27
HOW DOES THE WAY SGS 
CREATES VALUE FOR CUSTOMERS 
CONTRIBUTE TO MAKING THE 
WORLD BETTER, SAFER AND 
MORE INTERCONNECTED?
C  REATING  “ Our work in health & safety is second 
to none. Using new technologies 
and digital tools, we have helped 
our customers working remotely to 
stay connected during the Covid-19 
VALUE FOR OUR 
crisis and get back to work safely 
as quickly as possible.”
  Peter Possemiers
  Executive Vice President, Environment, Health & Safety
C  USTOMERS
Overview and approach    28
Building relationships with our customers  29
Innovating for our customers  31
Business continuity  34
Our sustainability services  35
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
28
Overview and approach
We are the leading provider of 
testing, inspection and certification  VALUE CREATION
services, we enable our customers 
How we  
to reduce risk, improve their 
efficiency, safety, quality, productivity  are creating  
and sustainability, advance speed 
to market, and create trust with  societal value
their own customers. 
We provide our customers across numerous 
sectors with services, that help make their 
businesses more efficient, profitable and 
sustainable. For example, our services 
help customers by supporting the switch 
to renewable energy, enabling carbon 
Business principles
neutrality, making buildings more efficient and 
Integrity
sustainable, nurturing the circular economy, 
promoting sustainable growth and more. Leadership 
Health & Safety
We are building better supply chains for our 
Respect
customers in terms of quality, processes and 
ptotcohrure orrboa cecutuui gnrssehgatm f optemrerruo niesvnttri. d s twWh inteiogteih r  bd ainperig er tami hthcaeotelii rcrlsep eoo iinswlnu.gt tnWe ioo rvucenaor sl aunc laenusno escdt chho tbaeemyildnp e s r.s  Enabling a better, spafSreQourf useaatnsaldsiit niyoma naobanrileldii tsi ynmterconnected world
We also offer social audit services that 
mageaainssutr ea  arann ogreg aonf iczarittieornia’s,  hpeelrpfoinrgm tahnecme  to  Process improvement
meet customer and consumer expectations.
The value of our services is then passed 
on to society in many ways, for example 
in the form of job security for employees, 
higher quality products and better 
environmental management.
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
29
Building relationships with our customers
How well we manage our customer relationships  HOW WE MANAGE OUR RELATIONSHIPS 
WITH OUR CUSTOMERS
determines what we are able to achieve as a business, 
Customer relationship management
in the long term. That’s why we aim to anticipate and 
Launched as a pilot in 2018, our customer 
respond to customer needs as they arise, while also  portal, SGS Online, both enables customers 
to engage directly with us, and acts as a CRM 
ensuring that all our employees have the skills and 
to support better interactions between our 
knowledge required to deliver our services to the highest  staff and customer. Our new process helps us 
standards. This also means we can add more value to  to be even more responsive by automatically 
alerting the team if a customer has a request 
society, which, in turn, supports further business success. 
or an issue, which will help us to improve the 
customer experience. This has currently been 
rolled out to 10 countries and we hope to 
double this in 2021.
OUR APPROACH  VOICE OF THE CUSTOMER 
We manage our customer relationships through  SURVEY 2020
Satisfaction surveys 
a key account management structure and 
We value customer feedback about their 
dedicated sales teams. Each of our business  +7 990
experiences, specific interests, suggestions 
lines has its own customer care department. 
and expectations. As well as our ongoing 
This is the direct point of contact for customers, 
communications, we regularly invite them 
through which they are connected to the 
to submit Voice of the Customer surveys. 
relevant part of the Company to handle  respondents
Run and managed via an online platform, 
their matter. 
these surveys are used to generate advanced 
By continually striving to improve quality  83 analytics that can be aggregated on a global 
and promote transparency, we monitor and  % scale, giving us a deeper understanding of our 
periodically review customer contact as part  customers’ experience, throughout our business. 
of our Management Review processes.  The platform also enables us to examine in 
of customer satisfaction detail any specific issues arising, so that we 
Our customer relationship projects are managed 
can make plans to remedy them. In 2020, we 
by our Strategic Transformation, Group Finance, 
have been looking at consolidating the customer 
Corporate Communications and Corporate IT 
satisfaction process by extending surveys to 
teams, and broken down into three key areas: 
every customer who interacts with us.
Customer Engagement, Operational Excellence, 
and Workforce. The first two directly impact  Integrity helpline
our Customer Relationship Management (CRM)  Our customers can contact us regarding any 
and include initiatives such as our customer  integrity-related issues through our dedicated 
portal, SGS Online. integrity helpline (see page 41). We take such 
matters very seriously and any issues raised 
are referred directly to senior managers, 
such as local Executive Vice Presidents 
and Managing Directors. 
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
30
Building relationships with our customers
 continued 103-1-3
Fair practices Pricing
We have a strong ethical approach to conducting  We are clear and transparent with our stakeholders 
our business, and are committed to using  about our approach to pricing. We recognize that 
competitive and fair practices. As such, we do  for our customers to be satisfied with the SGS 
not engage in any understandings or agreements  service, they need to feel that our pricing structure 
that may improperly influence markets, or discuss  is fair, that our products and services are priced 
pricing, competitive bid processes, contractual  fairly and that we will not exploit any demand 
terms, division of territories or customer and market  fluctuations. Our pricing and costing models are 
allocations with competitors. We do not make  part of our intellectual property and according to 
disparaging or untruthful allegations regarding  the Code of Integrity, employees can only disclose, 
competitors, or endeavor to obtain confidential  copy or use the information for its intended 
information about them using illegal or unethical  purposes. We provide our customers with highly-
means. Finally, our services and capabilities are  detailed quotes and invoices so that they are very 
never advertised in any way that could appear  clear about every aspect of our service 
to be deceptive or misleading.
Our Global Pricing Initiative
We launched our Global Pricing Initiative following 
an expert review and assessment of pricing 
practices across the Group. While internally this 
supports our profitable growth, it provides our 
stakeholders with transparency across service 
areas through a robust pricing process and 
enhanced governance model.
“ I believe it’s essential to partner with companies who 
value our mission, and SGS has proven to support 
us year after year. Partnering with a global market 
leader like SGS has ultimately delivered a profitable 
competitive advantage in our field of transportation 
and supply chain security.”
  Thorsten Neumann
  CEO, Transported Asset Protection Association (TAPA)
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
31
Innovating for our customers
In an era of rapid change and  BETTER | SAFER | MORE INTERCONNECTED
INNOVATION AND SUSTAINABILITY
technological advancement, 
Our innovation strategy is focused on three pillars: supporting internal processes 
businesses must innovate and 
through digital technologies; digitalizing external services for our customers and improving 
harness new developments in  the customer experience; and developing entire new products and business models. 
order to succeed. Our innovation 
activities not only ensure that we 
stay ahead of the curve; they enable 
us to add value to our customers 
and industries as a whole.
OUR APPROACH  DIGITAL SERVICES ONLINE PRESENCE  INNOVATION CULTURE
We recognize that innovation is key to our 
Digitalization has been a key focus for  Through our online store, SGS Online,  We continue to promote a culture 
economic growth and sustainable success, 
us in 2020 as we worked towards  customers can access services  of innovation in our business, crowd 
both in terms of driving operational efficiencies  becoming a global leader in developing  delivered by several of our business  sourcing ideas from employees 
in our own operations, and in developing  safe, effective and profitable digital  lines, including Environment, Health  across the Group through our Idea 
innovative services that add value for  solutions for all the sectors we operate  & Safety; Agriculture, Food and  Challenges initiative. Ideas developed 
in. By providing best-in-class services  Life Sciences; Oil, Gas and Chemicals;  from the Challenges are supported 
our customers. 
and introducing digital services to  and Certification and Business  through our Innovation Ecosystems, 
We welcome our internal networks and partners  enhance everything we do, we add  Enhancement, as well as our  where representatives from across 
further value for our customers.  Cybersecurity Services unit.  the SGS Group come together to 
to share ideas, and are prepared to test new  collaborate on idea development.  CASE STUDY: HARNESSING THE POWER 
ideas in the market. Our Idea Challenges program  Covid-19 showed us that, given the  During the pandemic, when  OF AI FOR THE FISHERIES SECTOR 
right circumstances, even businesses  face-to-face meetings were largely  In 2020, we started a pilot project 
actively encourages our people to come up 
that have traditionally been resistant to  not possible due to lockdowns and  with an incubator that is helping us 
with and develop ideas, which we then support  technological advancement can quickly  social distancing, this portal became  develop our innovation ideas into  SGS Peru has developed an AI data platform to 
help improve quality standards and efficiency in 
through our Innovation Ecosystem (see below).  adapt to new digital solutions. We are  very popular with customers. potential start-ups, introducing greater 
the production of fishmeal. The platform, known as 
leveraging this opportunity to develop  agility into our work processes to 
BEN, provides real time data to aid decision-making 
Our customers are often our partners in  a new digital innovation strategy that  speed up the development process.
and to help optimize processes and products. 
innovation. For example, Agilent, a leader in  will focus on using automation, both 
to make existing operations even  The AI technology is helping customers to stay 
life sciences, diagnostics and applied chemical 
more efficient and to develop new  more interconnected, enabling them to compare 
markets, provides SGS’ laboratories with  solutions for our customers. data across the sector. The value to our customers 
instruments, services, consumables, expertise  is shown in the customer satisfaction level of 97%.
“ Sustainability is one of the key drivers for change 
and applications. Together, we have formed 
in society and to be able to fuel that change, we are 
an Advanced Technology Group to collaborate 
developing innovative solutions. We merge our people’s 
on new technologies and to create laboratories 
expertise with that of our partners, to deliver all kinds of 
of the future that meet the needs of both 
digitalized products and services to make our customers’ 
our customers and their customers.
businesses run more efficiently and sustainably.”
 Siddi Wouters
 Senior Vice President, Digital & Innovation
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
32
Innovating for our customers
 continued
INITIATIVES AND ACHIEVEMENTS Increasing transparency BETTER | SAFER | MORE INTERCONNECTED
Many of our innovations in 2020 focused on  Through our supply chain visibility program, 
overcoming the challenges of Covid-19 and  Transparency-One, we collect information about 
helping people and businesses carry on as  compliance with environmental, social and 
normally as possible, despite lockdowns and  governance (ESG) issues. This enables us, for 
social distancing restrictions. See page 33 for  example, to make calculations about the carbon 
Covid-19 solutions that we delivered through  footprint of a customer’s product. By enabling 
our ‘Next Normal’ solutions initiative. greater supply chain visibility and connectivity, 
Other innovations in 2020 included: the Transparency-One solution helps businesses 
meet their sustainability commitments and 
Smart services ensure sustainable and ethical supply chains 
Our Microbial Risk Assessment Services  from source to store.
(MiRAS) enables oil and gas customers 
Blockchain partnership
to predict, monitor and mitigate microbial 
challenges in their pipes, to prevent corrosion  Part of our new service development strategy 
and continue safe and cost-effective production.  is to identify and work with companies that 
We also developed smart warehouses,  develop innovative solutions, which we can 
which use Internet of Things (IoT) technology  use as part of our services. An example is our 
and wireless sensor networks to detect  partnership with technology company, Circulor, 
fluctuations in temperature, moisture, relative  which develops blockchain-based traceability 
humidity and carbon dioxide (CO ) levels inside  platform for industrial supply chains. We will 
2
grain stockpiles. This enables us to identify  develop a joint offering which combines their 
degradation of grains, early germination, and  technology solutions and SGS’ expertise in the 
the growth of insects and microorganisms at  physical mining industry and value chain, to 
the earliest stages, so that the customer can  deliver traceability, responsible sourcing and  CASE STUDY: 100% EFFICIENCY, 100% COMPLIANCE
respond quickly before the issue threatens the  environmental management solutions. 
quality and integrity of their commodity, thereby  New partnership smooths post-Brexit trade THE CHALLENGE We advise the barge captain by telephone when he 
helping to reduce waste. Other SGS businesses  Our customer required a 24/7 customs declaration  can leave the harbor to fuel up the container vessels 
One example of a service that has been created  service to manage its offshore bunkering procedure  offshore. Once the refueling process has been 
are now using the same technology and system, 
by our innovation culture is our new customs  in the Netherlands and Belgium. Barges are loaded  completed, the captain reports the exact number 
applying them to their own business services. declaration service. International trade is critical  at our customer’s tank terminals in Rotterdam  of liters/kilograms to be declared to customs.
before going out to sea, where the container ships 
to our customers’ business. To help ensure that 
are fueled up. A complex customs clearance process  NEXT STEPS
UK-EU exports and imports of pharmaceuticals  requires three different customs/tax statuses to be  Our customer and SGS have set up a stable clearance 
and food items continue smoothly post-Brexit,  declared. Our customer was looking for a clearance  process that runs 24/7. Container ships can be fueled 
we have entered into a strategic partnership  process that would speed up processing times, while  up at sea without losing time, while the customs and 
ensuring 100% customs and excise compliance. excise authorities can rely on the correct calculation of 
with P&O Ferrymasters to offer their 
duties and taxes and 100% compliance. In light of the 
customers customs declaration services. OUR SOLUTION success of this initiative, our customer and SGS have 
Using our customs declaration software that  already expanded the service for different customs 
we developed inhouse, MCC, we are able to  requirements, for several of our customer’s entities, 
provide our customer with a 24/7 declaration service,  helping the company to operate better.
consulting with them to ensure they are following 
the right process. 
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
33
Innovating for our customers
 continued
DELIVERING SOLUTIONS   ‘Next Normal’ solutions Initiatives MEDICAL PPE TESTING BETTER | SAFER | MORE INTERCONNECTED
FOR THE ‘NEXT NORMAL’ Our ‘Next Normal’ solutions fall into  Testing and certification for medical Personal 
Across our business, our teams have worked  three categories: Protective Equipment (PPE) products ensures 
hard to support customers throughout the  they meet the regulatory requirements for their 
pandemic, updating pre-existing services  – Enabling organizations to resume activity  destination market. As there are no harmonized 
and introducing innovative new services to  despite Covid-19 standards, we offer in-depth expertise in the 
mitigate potential health and business risks  – Services to ensure operations are maintained relevant standards for our customers’ specific 
associated with Covid-19. Bringing these  – Sharing expertise to support recovery. target markets, streamlining testing to ensure 
services together in our ‘Next Normal’  all compliance obligations are met efficiently. 
solutions initiative, we are making it easier  Examples of these solutions include: By the end of 2020, eight out of ten masks being 
for customers to access what they need to  distributed from China were certified by SGS. 
SGS LIFE SCIENCES
ensure their business continuity and recovery. 
With extensive experience in novel vaccines,  COVID-19 INTEL
we offer analytical, bioanalytical and clinical  SGS Digicomply launched Covid-19 Intel – 
OVERVIEW
trial solutions, along with process management  an AI platform to facilitate and enhance the 
Our aim throughout the global Covid-19 crisis 
capabilities. We also provide a wide range  pioneering work of teams on the pandemic 
has been to continue to be a valuable and 
of essential services from our integrated  research frontline. The platform utilizes advances 
trusted partner to our customers. We have 
network of laboratories, to support the  in natural language processing and other AI 
worked to provide ‘Next Normal’ solutions 
fight against Covid-19. techniques to enable researchers to keep up 
to help them weather the storm and get back 
with the large and growing volume of research. 
to business as usual as soon as possible. 
Covid-Intel was a response to a call to action 
We also offer a range of industry-specific  from the US White House, and a coalition 
solutions to help customers successfully  of leading research groups, for organizations 
navigate through their own unique challenges.  to provide tools that can help generate new  CASE STUDY: REMOTE TESTING
insights into the virus and its behavior.
Our Governments and Institutions Business is  
using a digital solution to enable remote inspections  
of exporters’ shipments. Instead of our SGS  
For further information on how we   inspectors physically traveling to the site, the  
can qualitatively measure the value   inspector and customer both connect to the QiiQ  
we create for society due to our   app and together conduct a visual inspection of  
‘Next Normal’ solutions see page 26 the goods for shipment.
This solution is helping businesses to stay 
interconnected and functioning despite 
pandemic lockdowns.
For further information, see page 28  
of our Integrated Annual Report
See our film on Remote testing
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
34
Business continuity
Our long-term success depends  ENSURING CONTINUITY DURING COVID-19  4 097
BUSINESS CONTINUITY RESPONSIBILITIES
With the global pandemic, our new Global 
on our ability to continue serving 
Business Continuity Strategy and enhanced 
our customers in the wake of  Business Continuity teams were put to the  VINICTEE GPRRIETSYI D&E BNUTS OINPEERSAST CIOONNTAILN UITY RCEOGNITOINNAULIT BYU OSFINFIECSESR S
a disruptive event, whether a  test. Despite the challenges, they significantly  managers completed a new online 
contributed to SGS’ response and the  ✓  Oversight of Business  ✓  Implementation and  business continuity awareness course
natural disaster, terrorist attack,  Continuity at SGS measurement of Business 
continuation of operations, globally.  Continuity strategy
serious fire, cyberattack or, even  We had a head start in preparing for Covid-19  GLOBAL BUSINESS  ✓  Governance of Business 
CONTINUITY MANAGER Continuity Programs covering all 
as we have experienced in 2020,  – when our eight Regional Business Continuity 
lines of business and functions
a pandemic. We seek to embed  Officers met in Barcelona in October 2019, one  ✓  Gstlroabteagl By udseivneelsosp Cmoenntti nuity  ✓  Putting metrics and analysis in 
Group Business Continuity into  of the issues raised was contingency plans for  and dissemination place to support Group strategy
infectious disease epidemics. During December 
✓  Management programs 
our culture.  2019, our North East Asia Business Continuity  across core Group functions  COUNTRY AND SITE BUSINESS 
teams began preparing plans for the region,  e.g. IT programs CONTINUITY OFFICERS
based on experience from the SARS outbreak  ✓  Perform Business Impact 
OUR APPROACH  in 2002. When Covid-19 was discovered, this  GLOBAL BUSINESS CONTINUITY  Analysis (BIA) and 
Our Global Business Continuity Strategy aims to  experience was rapidly shared with our other  STEERING COMMITTEE risk assessments
enable us to respond to any disruption efficiently  regions across the globe.  ✓  Governs global Business  ✓  Develop Business Continuity 
and effectively, while minimizing the impact on  Continuity Programs strategies and plans based 
For our employees, our Environment, Health &  on the analysis
our operations in terms of our sites, processes  ✓  Ensures a consistent approach 
and service delivery.  Safety experts began by supporting the building  across all SGS operations ✓  Exercise and test the plans and 
of an eLearning module, explaining about Covid-19  initiate process of continuous 
In recent years, we have enhanced our  and what it meant for them and our business.  improvement following the 
Business Continuity Lifecycle 
Business Continuity function in terms of  We introduced a travel ban and strict safety 
overall management, strategic approach,  measures, such as social distancing, shift work and 
teams and training. The importance of Business  wearing PPE. Furthermore, our IT teams worked 
Continuity is reflected in the fact that it is dealt  closely with Business Continuity teams to rapidly  SGS BUSINESS CONTINUITY KEY ASPECTS
with at the highest levels of the Company.  make all the necessary arrangements, including 
Business Continuity is overseen by our  provision of laptops, so that key employees across  BENEFITS
Vice President of Operational Integrity, who  the globe could work remotely.
reports directly to our Chief Executive Officer.  ✓ Framework of resilience – using 
Our strategy is developed and disseminated  We set up a central hub in the Netherlands  SGS network to maximum effect
by our Global Business Continuity Manager,  for the provision of medical PPE to our sites  BUILDINGS PROCESSES & ACTIVITIES ✓ Speed of response in initial  
around the world, meeting orders of up to several 
with implementation and business impact  stages of a crisis
million masks, alleviating dramatic shortages and 
analysis carried out by our eight Regional  ✓ Calmness and clarity
enabling true operational Business Continuity.
Business Continuity Officers (senior managers), 
to understand critical processes within  We also communicated with our customers regularly  SUPPLIERS INFORMATION/TECHNOLOGY ✓ Preparedness as situation unfolds
the organization. to provide the assurance they needed regarding safe 
continued delivery of services. We also developed 
new innovations to help our customers operate 
through the pandemic. (See page 33) PEOPLE
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
35
Our sustainability services
We create value through our 
SUSTAINABLE  SUSTAINABLE  SUSTAINABLE  
services, operations and supply 
USE OF NATURAL RESOURCES LIVING PRODUCTION 
chain. As a sustainable business 
ourselves, a key part of how we  We help our customers to use natural resources  We offer a comprehensive range of food safety,  We offer a wide range of services to help our 
add value to society is that we also  in a way and at a rate that does not damage  quality and sustainability and product/materials  customers to achieve a sustainable production, 
the resilience of ecosystems and the benefits  testing solutions to help grow consumer  including site operation and management, health 
help other organizations to become 
they provide. This includes a wide number of  confidence at every stage of the value chain.  and safety at the workplace, green process 
more sustainable. In this way, we  services for agriculture and fishing industries,  We also provide critical services for the health  design, environmental assessment of suppliers 
water and soil preservation activities and  industry that include vaccine testing, clinical trials  and a comprehensive set of tools to manage 
encourage them to add value to 
extractive industries. and pharmaceutical quality control testing. risk within supply chains. We also offer onsite 
society, magnifying our impact.  product packaging processes and waste and 
recycling solutions.
OVERVIEW Read more about BioLab in our 
Integrated Annual Report on page 48
Bringing together innovative ways of improving 
sustainability performance, we help businesses 
ensure that their operations, and supply chains 
comply with regulations and standards, while 
meeting stakeholder expectations. We also  BETTER | SAFER | MORE INTERCONNECTED BETTER | SAFER | MORE INTERCONNECTED BETTER | SAFER | MORE INTERCONNECTED
help our customers to implement efficient, 
manageable processes and systems that 
CASE STUDY: SEED AND CROP CASE STUDY: CRADLE TO CRADLE
enable them to conserve natural resources, 
reduce pollution and protect biodiversity  Precision agriculture and fertility management solutions  The ultimate goal of our Cradle to Cradle certification 
in the long term.  promote sustainable practices. At the same time, they  is to encourage the innovative design of products that 
increase production to meet greater demand caused  have a positive impact on both people and the planet. 
by global population growth and changing food habits.  Implementing the Cradle to Cradle framework helps 
Solutions, such as agronomy services and soil and  our customers to achieve this, while gaining recognition 
water analysis, benefit society in many ways: lower  as leaders in their field, and meeting the demands 
fertilizer use means less water pollution; optimized  of both customers and the market.
water management reduces public water shortages 
and associated vulnerabilities; and better crop yields 
enhance productivity and farmer livelihoods.
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
36
Our sustainability services
 continued
SUSTAINABLE  SUSTAINABLE   SUSTAINABLE 
ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURES BUSINESS PRACTICES
We advise our customers on how to manage their  We help our customers to optimize their buildings  Helping our customers to establish, organize and 
energy more efficiently and develop alternative  and infrastructures’ efficiency through the full  develop rigorous processes, we enable them 
energy sources. Our expertise in this area can  lifecycle of their operations. This includes Green  to efficiently manage their business operations. 
contribute to climate change mitigation and provide  Building Certification, construction materials  Examining their supply chains, we look at aspects 
savings to our customers. testing and safety and reliability services in the  as diverse as business continuity management, 
transportation industry.  ethics and social compliance and anti-corruption 
measures. We also help coordinate training, auditing, 
verification and management systems so that can 
Read more about EDGE in our  be effectively managed through a single process.
Integrated Annual Report on page 74
BETTER | SAFER | MORE INTERCONNECTED BETTER | SAFER | MORE INTERCONNECTED BETTER | SAFER | MORE INTERCONNECTED
CASE STUDY: SGS OBTAINS APPROVED  CASE STUDY: SGS AND IBEROSTAR – A 
VERIFIER STATUS FOR CLIMATE BONDS  SHARED COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY 
CERTIFICATION SCHEME
Iberostar Hotels & Resorts has selected SGS 
The Climate Bonds Initiative (CBI), a not-for-profit  to provide several services. A main reason for 
organization, aims to promote investment into projects and  this decision is the values and commitment to 
assets that will speed up the transition to a low carbon and  sustainability and making the world a better 
climate resilient economy. CBI anticipates that investor  place, which the two companies share. 
demand for green bonds and climate bonds will increase in  Sustainability is at the core of the governance model 
line with the delivery of quality products into the market.  and business strategy of both companies, guiding 
However, it warns that investor concerns about the  our roadmaps and involving our entire value chain. 
credibility of green labeling are also growing. Its standards,  The creation of shared value is also a key tool in the 
assurance and certification are seen as essential for  improvement and development of new projects.
improving confidence and transparency, and boosting 
growth in the market. “ Both Iberostar and SGS share the idea 
In May 2020, our Hong Kong affiliate, SGS Hong Kong,  that sustainable growth is life. We are 
secured ‘approved verifier’ status under the Climate Bond  convinced that sustainability is not 
Standards and Certification Scheme of the CBI. As an  a goal but a path to follow, and that 
approved verifier, SGS Hong Kong is qualified to provide 
it offers us great opportunities and 
green or climate bonds verification to bond issuers with 
projects in a range of sectors, including solar, wind and low  a greater guarantee for the future.”
carbon buildings. Since the accreditation is at a global level, 
 Soraya Romero 
we can offer this service to customers across the world, 
 E MEA Sustainability Director, Grupo Iberostar
with SGS Hong Kong acting as lead auditor.
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
37
HOW DOES SGS HELP MAKE 
THE WORLD BETTER, SAFER 
AND MORE INTERCONNECTED 
THROUGH ITS APPROACH TO 
PROFESSIONAL EXCELLENCE?
PROFESSIONAL  “ SGS is a sustainable company. 
We operate in the most efficient, 
safest way, keeping our people 
protected and interconnected, 
ensuring we all feel a part of 
EXCELLENCE
the same company despite 
being spread across the globe.”
  José María Hernández-Sampelayo
  Senior Vice President for Human Resources
Overview and approach    38
Compliance and integrity  39
Human rights  42
Data privacy and protection  43
Supply chain management  46
Our world class facilities  50
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
38
Overview and approach
At the core of everything we  MANAGING OUR RESPONSE TO COVID-19
When Covid-19 hit, our priority was to 
do, and the way that we do 
support our colleagues all around the world. 
it, lies our commitment to the 
We set up crisis management teams at global, 
highest standards of professional 
regional and country level. The global team, 
excellence. It is not enough for  comprising regional Chief Operating Officers, 
our global integrity manager, HR team and 
us to deliver world class services; 
global communications manager, has overall 
we must do so while upholding  responsibility for the health and safety of 
standards of integrity, human  employees related to Covid-19. 
rights, data privacy and innovation. We enabled our people to work from home, 
facilitated safe shift working in our offices, 
and collected and stored Personal Protective 
OUR APPROACH Equipment such as masks for our affiliates. 
Our approach to doing business is first  As the crisis intensified, the global team 
and foremost to ensure we work with  held weekly meetings to review the spread 
integrity and are compliant with all appropriate  of the virus, keeping employees informed 
legislation and regulations around the world.  of developments on our website. 
As established in our Human Rights policy,  At a regional level, we arranged training 
we are committed to respect human rights  courses for our people on a range of 
as well as people’s rights to data protection  topics, including how to deal with Covid-19, 
and the importance of information security.  safety measures they should take, how 
We work hard to source responsibly,  to manage working from home and how 
increasing sustainability both in our  to use Microsoft Teams for virtual meetings. 
operations and throughout our supply chain, 
Our local teams also ran several initiatives. 
as well as in our world class laboratories.  “ As a sales representative who is used to meeting 
Our colleagues in Hong Kong, for example, 
To maintain our high standards, we provide  developed and implemented a 12-point   with customers face-to-face, I’ve had to adapt 
training to our people on all of these issues,  ‘Return-to-Work Plan’ to help prevent a 
to new ways of working based predominantly 
and investigate any potential instances  resurgence of the virus. In Saudi Arabia, 
of non-compliance. Where any are found,  our laboratory team minimized the risk of  in the office, which has been arranged to keep 
we implement an action plan to help  infection when receiving customer samples  us socially distanced and safe. Although we have 
prevent reoccurrence from taking place.  by creating a dedicated reception area for 
to physically stay further apart, in many ways 
couriers. Our motto throughout has been 
‘Yes We Can!’ and we are thankful that we  it feels like we now work even closer ‘together’.”
have had relatively few cases of Covid-19 
considering the size of our organization.   Cozma Claudia
  Senior Sales Representative, Bucharest, Romania
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
39
Compliance and integrity
102-16
102-17
102-33
102-34
103-1-3
205-3
MAINTAINING TRUST We do not provide any financial or in-kind  OUR PERFORMANCE
SGS CODE OF INTEGRITY 
Our success depends on our ability to maintain  support, given directly or indirectly, to political 
– Defines the high standards of professional  1 00
our customers’ and stakeholders’ trust. In order  integrity we expect from anyone acting on  parties, their elected representatives or  %
to give our customers confidence, we must  persons seeking political office. We support 
behalf of or representing the SGS Group 
maintain exceptionally high standards of integrity,  some industry associations, but the sum is 
in everything we do. That’s why we’ve included  – Clearly details what SGS expects from  not material, representing less than 0.01%  of employees have signed the Code of Integrity
‘integrity’ as one of our six Business Principles.  its representatives in relation to its  of our revenue. In 2020, we did not make 
2020 | 100%
Integrity Principle  any contributions or donations of either 
OUR APPROACH – Applies to all SGS employees and affiliated  political or lobbying nature. 2019 | 100%
Our Code of Integrity provides a blueprint  companies, contractors, subcontractors,  2018 | 100%
for our employees, affiliated companies,  joint venture partners and agents 
COMPLIANCE AND INTEGRITY  2014 | 100%
contractors, subcontractors, joint venture 
– All new employees are required to  RESPONSIBILITIES
partners and agents to follow. It guides them 
sign the Code when they join SGS  1 7
to do what is right in the situations they face 
– Is in place to ensure we treat everyone  PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT COMMITTEE
every day. 
with fairness, dignity and respect  Chairman of the Board of Directors; two other 
The expectations set out in the Code  Board members; Chief Executive Officer; 
– Is supported by a confidential helpline  Total number of breaches1 of the Code of Integrity 
include: not engaging in any form of bribery  for raising concerns about issues  Chief Compliance Officer: identified through corporate integrity helplines2
or corruption; treating everyone with fairness,  ✓  Ensures implementation of the Code of Integrity
dignity and respect; adhering strictly to the  related to the Code  ✓  Advises management on all issues  2020 | 17
legal requirements of every country in which  – All concerns raised are investigated  of business ethics 2019 | 36
we operate; and not seeking any business  through specific channels
advantage that would compromise our integrity  CHIEF COMPLIANCE OFFICER 2018 | 28
or threaten our assets, brand, people or  ✓  Implements procedures governing ethical  2014 | 42
intellectual property. All new employees are  behavior and conducts investigations of 
required to sign the Code when they join SGS.  alleged staff misconduct 2083
We work hard to prevent corruption and  CORPORATE SECURITY TEAM
misconduct in a number of ways: through  ✓  Ensures security arrangements adequately protect 
training and communication, how we  people and assets and respect human rights Total number of integrity issues4 reported through 
corporate integrity helplines
express our contractual obligations, effective  ✓  Continuously evaluates assets and businesses
reporting and monitoring, and carrying out  2020 | 208
risk assessments and due diligence.  HUMAN RIGHTS COMMITTEE
2019 | 221
We also have whistle-blowing procedures,  Chief Executive Officer; Chief Compliance Officer; 
Vice President Corporate Sustainability 2018 | 237
backed by a responsive network of investigators 
who review all cases of suspected violations.  ✓  Oversees implementation of human  2014 | 241
rights commitments  
We provide a confidential helpline for people  1. A  breach of the Code of Integrity is a violation of the Code of Integrity
to use to raise concerns about issues related  ✓  Supports human rights as defined  2. ‘ Helplines’ means channels used by employees and external parties 
in the Code and Business Principles to report suspected violations of the Code of Integrity. The reports 
to the Code, which we then investigate. 
To find out more, see SGS Code of Integrity,  can be submitted online or by phone, email, fax or post
SGS Business Principles 3.  A n integrity issue is a breach of one or more of the 15 SGS Code 
of Integrity rules
4. A t the time of reporting, 104 pending cases were still open and 
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report under review
40
Compliance and integrity
 continued 102-17
102-33
102-34
103-1-3
205-2
205-3
INTEGRITY TRAINING both face-to-face and through eLearning,  104 92 150
Training is essential to maintaining a culture that  which all employees are required to attend. 
has integrity at its core. All new SGS recruits 
We update our training every year, incorporating 
must complete integrity training within three 
case studies and lessons learned from real issues 
months of joining the Company, covering both  allegations of misconduct investigated employees attended the 
arising in the business to help prevent repeat 
SGS’ integrity expectations and standards,  annual integrity training*
occurrences. In 2020, we delivered interactive 
and the disciplinary action, termination and/
training on how to define non-serious breaches 
or criminal prosecution that will follow any  * 2020 annual integrity training was 
of our Code of Integrity, as well as on how to  launched in December 2020. All eligible 
violation. This is then reinforced through 
conduct an investigation for a non-critical violation. employees will have completed the 
annual mandatory integrity training, available  training by March 2021
EMPLOYEE INTEGRITY TRAINING
ONBOARDING INTEGRITY TRAINING ANNUAL INTEGRITY TRAINING (AIT)
ONE OF:
NEW   ALL  
EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES
CODE OF INTEGRITY  eLEARNING MODULE FACE-TO-FACE  eLEARNING  INTEGRITY TALKS 
Read and sign Complete within  When available Available   Presented 
three months throughout   by supervisors
year
This is an annual process
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
41
Compliance and integrity
 continued 102-17 307-1
102-33 406-1
102-34 417-2
103-1-3 417-3
205-3 419-1
INCIDENTS AND INVESTIGATIONS
ISSUES REPORTED THROUGH THE SGS INTEGRITY HELPLINE IN 2020 
We encourage our employees to report integrity-
related incidents using our confidential integrity 
helpline, or by contacting local or corporate-level 
compliance teams, without fear of retribution.  Broken down by type of breach:
Our grievance mechanisms and whistle-blowing  Integrity of  Financial   Conflict of  Employee Compliance  Environment 
procedures are clearly set out in both our Code  Services  records  interest  relations  with laws  health & safety 
of Integrity and our Supplier Code of Conduct. 3 1 2 9 1 1
TOTAL NUMBER   ISSUES THAT   BREACHES OF THE  
WHISTLE-BLOWING CHANNELS
OF ISSUES  REQUIRED  CODE OF INTEGRITY  
In 2020, we made it easier for employees to  REPORTED  INVESTIGATION*  IDENTIFIED TO DATE 
report violations through our Integrity Helpline, 
208 104 17
Based on the data received from both the global 
helpline and local legal compliance teams, we are 
able to assess if we need to put in place additional  Broken down by consequence for the non-compliant employees:
mitigation programs. We also use the information  Notification  Workshop   Sanction  Termination  Under decision 
reported to the helpline to customize our training  to employee        process 
on the human rights issues most relevant to SGS.  3 2 1 3 8
Managing directors must report all local integrity 
breaches into the Operational Integrity Crystal  *  To date, 104 reported issues are still under investigation process
reporting tool. This provides comprehensive 
visibility of local integrity breaches that have 
not been reported through the Integrity Helpline.  COMPLIANCE “ Our success is dependent 
In 2020, we were not issued with 
on the trust we inspire in 
INVESTIGATIONS
any significant fines or penalties for non-
Any reports we receive about suspected  compliance with regulations concerning: our customers and investors. 
violations, including cases of discrimination, are 
To bring true value to our 
extensively assessed, in a way that preserves  – Environment
respect for human rights, confidentiality and a  – Service information stakeholders and to society 
presumption of innocence. It is the responsibility  – Protection of privacy and personal data at large, we must act 
of Legal and Compliance, together with 
– Marketing communications with integrity.”
Corporate Security, to investigate the most 
serious violations. Their findings may result 
  Olivier Merkt
in disciplinary action, including employment    Senior Vice President, Chief Compliance and Legal Officer
termination and, in extreme cases, criminal 
prosecution. Local investigators deal with 
less serious violations. 
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
42
Human rights
102-17
101-1-3
412-1
412-2
It is our responsibility to protect human rights throughout our business   0 0 BETTER | SAFER | MORE INTERCONNECTED
and in our supply chain. All people at all our sites across our business  
have an important role to play in this, firstly by operating in line with our 
Human Rights policy and our Code of Integrity and then by reporting  cases of child labor,  reported violations 
forced or compulsory  of the rights of 
suspected breaches to our local legal and compliance departments   labor, or violation of  indigenous people
the right to exercise 
or via our Integrity Helpline.  freedom of association
We continually evaluate and review ways 
HUMAN RIGHTS RESPONSIBILITIES HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY
to strengthen our approach, ensuring that 
Our Company-wide Human Rights Policy 
we remain in line with developments in 
HUMAN RIGHTS COMMITTEE elaborates on the requirements in our Code of 
both international and relevant national 
laws, and society’s expectations.  Chief Executive Officer; Chief Compliance Officer;  Integrity, our Business Principles and associated 
Vice President Corporate Sustainability: policies to treat everyone with whom we come 
When necessary, we cooperate with the  ✓  Oversees implementation of human  into contact with fairness, dignity and respect.  CASE STUDY: TRAINING OUR EMPLOYEES 
relevant authorities to identify, mitigate and  rights commitments It clearly sets out our approach to respecting 
IN HUMAN RIGHTS
remedy any adverse impacts our operations  ✓  Supports human rights as defined  human rights across our global business. 
may have caused or contributed to. in the Code and Business Principles In December 2019, we re-launched our annual 
The Policy aligns with the key international  human rights training as an SGS Campus eLearning 
When making an acquisition, our due diligence  SENIOR MANAGERS human rights legislation, including the  module. This is available to all employees around 
process requires us to investigate how the  International Bill of Human Rights, the  the world in their local languages. 36 390 employees 
✓  Expected to demonstrate visible and explicit  completed this training in 2020.
target company manages human rights.  International Labour Organization’s Declaration 
support for human rights commitments
We also require them to comply with our  on Fundamental Principles and Rights at  The training covers topics such as child labor, 
freedom from discrimination, equality and respect, 
Code of Integrity and aligning with our values  CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY FUNCTION Work, the Children’s Rights and Business  human rights governance, and reporting human rights 
is a pre-condition for acquisition to go ahead.  Principles, the United Nations Women’s  breaches helping our employees to stay connected to 
✓  Coordinates development and management 
We require our suppliers to comply with our  of human rights program Empowerment Principles and the United  these important issues. We continue to enhance the 
Supplier Code of Conduct, which promotes  ✓  Manages human rights training Nations Global Compact.  rceulsetvoamncizein ogf  itth aisc ctroaridniinngg  tmo othdeu lien tteog oriutry  bhueslpinlienses c, ablyls  
our sustainability principles and minimum  Our Policy is complemented by our Code  we receive and data submitted by local legal and 
requirements. Suppliers are contractually  of Integrity and Supplier Code of Conduct. compliance teams. We also regularly assess the 
need for additional programs to fill in any gaps 
bound to act in accordance with health, safety 
in local training.
and employment policies, as well as with 
relevant standards and legislation, and to  36 390
continuously encourage their own suppliers 
to do the same. (See page 46)
employees completed Human Rights 
eLearning training in 2020
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
43
Data privacy and protection
103-1-3
418-1
As a company that holds itself to the highest standards of professional  OUR PERFORMANCE
INFORMATION SECURITY 
behavior, and that operates in a controlled-risk environment, we are 
STRATEGIC AIM 0
committed to the protection of information, compliance with privacy 
laws and strengthening cybersecurity. Recognizing that any breach  Our information security strategic aim is to 
would both affect our ability to operate as normal and the integrity of  ensure that we are always prepared to keep  complaints received from outside 
our information and its creation, storage,  parties and substantiated by SGS5
our customers’ information, we put great emphasis on the prevention, 
transmission and disposal systems secure. 2020 | 0
detection, management and our response to security risks. 
2019 | 0
INFORMATION AND IT SYSTEMS 
RISK EVENTS 2018 | 0
OUR APPROACH TO INFORMATION SECURITY  In 2020, we initiated the Information  – Technical failures  2014 | –
We have a framework for protecting  Governance Framework (IGF) – a new approach  – Malicious attacks
intellectual property, business services,  to securing information pertaining to SGS  – Natural disasters 0
personal information and customer data,  and its employees, customers and suppliers. 
– Human errors
with a dedicated team responsible for its  As well as configuring new technical controls 
implementation. The following types of  in collaboration with Global IT Security, the  – Terrorist attacks
information are covered: all data, specifications,  approach incorporates behavioral guidelines  – Weather-related events substantiated complaints concerning 
breaches of data customer policy5
results, facts, correspondence, methods and  and physical controls for the protection of 
knowledge pertaining to SGS, our employees,  hard copy and verbally transmitted information.  INFORMATION SECURITY PREVENTION   2020 | 0
contractors, customers, suppliers, methods  This major initiative requires close consultation  AND PREPARATION MEASURES 2019 | 0
and tangible and intangible assets.  with all businesses and functions and will  – Enhance IT systems 
help to align SGS with the principles of  2018 | 0
We work to prevent and defend against threats  – Contingency plans
ISO27001:Information Security. 2014 | –
to our digital information by carefully managing  – Penetration testing
our IT Security and Anomaly Detection Systems,  In adapting to Covid-19, Corporate Security 
– Put policies and procedures in 
while deploying tools to identify vulnerabilities  sustained and even enhanced its operational  99
and forecasting trends in the cybersecurity  reach by conducting investigations  place to streamline processes %
landscape. We implement the tightest security  remotely. This involved training carefully  – Vulnerability Assessment Initiative
controls, based on international standards  selected local employees to conduct  – Develop risk control capabilities
% of employees who completed 
and best practices, and our IT management  interviews and gather information under  SGS data privacy eLearning*
team works closely with our Business  our supervision. Alongside our due diligence 
2020 | 99
Continuity team to ensure that effective  and certification verification services, this 
crisis management planning systems are  shift to predominantly remote operations  2019 | 95
in place to deal with any eventuality. is transformative.
2018 | 95
2014 | –
 
5. Reported through our centralized system that currently covers Europe
*  2 020 annual integrity training, which includes data protection and 
privacy e-learning, was launched in December 2020. All eligible 
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report employees will have completed the training by March 2021
44
Data privacy and protection
 continued 103-1-3
OUR APPROACH TO INFORMATION PROTECTION 
We continue to enhance our internal  DATA PROTECTION STRATEGIC AIM
management system to further protect our 
employees’ private data, our own intellectual  Our Data Protection strategic aim is to ensure 
property, and the information and data of our  that personal data is effectively managed.
customers. We aim to be a leader in the field of 
data protection and go to great lengths to ensure  SGS DATA PRIVACY POLICY
that personal information is effectively managed 
– Governs how we collect, use and manage 
and database access is strictly controlled. 
the personal data of customers, employees 
Respecting individual rights and choices,  and third parties
we strive to be transparent and open about the  – Confidentiality and privacy are key 
data we collect and to protect the data we hold  principles of the SGS Code of Integrity
from unauthorized use or disclosure. The way 
we do this is set out in our Data Privacy Policy.  DATA PROTECTION POTENTIAL RISKS 
Initially rolled out in Europe in response to 
– Data leakage
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), 
– Misuse of personal data
we are now rolling out the Policy further afield.
– Unauthorized access to data held by SGS
In 2020, we successfully met several new 
– Impact on individual livelihoods
data privacy challenges. For example, the 
Covid-19 pandemic required us introduce and 
DATA PROTECTION MEASURES
develop new solutions and mobile applications 
for Covid-19 monitoring purposes and their  – SGS Privacy Policy, communication 
compliance from a privacy by design standpoint.  and implementation
More broadly, the increased introduction of new  – SGS Data Privacy Notices
technologies and applications into our day-to-
– Employee training
day business has required us to find solutions 
– SGS Online Privacy Request Form
to many new data privacy questions. We are 
expanding our GDPR data privacy program  – Data processing agreements with suppliers
outside of Europe and are constantly improving  – Supplier security standards and assessment
our data privacy processes either through new IT 
– Privacy by design and data protection 
solutions which allow us to have a better visibility 
impact assessment procedures
of the personal data we process or in the area of 
– Data Breach Management Procedure
vendor risk management with the development 
of dedicated vendor’s IT security and data 
privacy due diligence to ensure that SGS is 
investing in the most compliant data privacy 
by design solutions.
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
45
Data privacy and protection
 continued 103-1-3
TRAINING timeframe requirements, depending on the severity  BETTER | SAFER | MORE INTERCONNECTED
To make sure security and data protection is top  and criticality of the threat. 
of mind for all our people, we run an extensive, 
Incident reporting processes are detailed in our 
ongoing training program. Our courses are adapted 
IT Security Policy. In 2020, we made reporting email 
to the specific needs of participants throughout our 
security issues even easier for our employees. Now, 
business, from new recruits, to senior management, 
at the click of a button in Outlook, they can report any 
to Data Privacy Officers. 
email they suspect of being an attempt at phishing, 
In 2020, as part of an accelerated strategic initiative,  directly to local SGS Security Operations Centers. 
we upskilled our people on information security, data  In 2020, around 39 000 ‘report phishing’ tickets 
protection and cybersecurity through online training.  were created – proportionally less than in 2019, 
due to our work to reinforce our filtering capabilities.
We communicated with all Chief Operating Officers 
about the importance of information security, and  Any major security issues reported are investigated 
they in turn communicated with their Managing  by the IT Security Department. Once we have 
Directors. Each affiliate was tasked with ensuring  identified the root cause, we evaluate and 
their employees completed our information security  communicate the impact of any proposed mitigation. 
eLearning module by the end of November 2020.  Our Data Privacy officers assess the personal risks 
In 2020, 89.98% of SGS employees worldwide  associated with any incidents, and determine whether 
completed the security awareness training.  the individual data owners and local data protection 
Countries who had not met their target were given  authorities should be notified. We follow our SGS 
a one month grace period to do so. The training is  Data Breach Management Procedure in all matters 
updated annually to reflect lessons learned from real  where authorities are engaged. Where the incident 
cases, and covers topics such as phishing emails,  is the result of a policy violation, this may result 
data protection, secure use of emails, and how to  in disciplinary action. 
detect and react to cyberattacks. 
CYBERSECURITY
In 2020, our eLearning module on Data Protection  Our Cybersecurity Department is tasked with  CASE STUDY: SGS IMPLEMENTS NEW GENERATION HOSTING PLATFORM
and Privacy principles was rolled out to more than  
anticipating, averting and mitigating cyber threats 
92 150 employees, with a completion rate of 98.8%.
against our business. As a global and geographically  When looking for a new generation hosting platform  After some research into the market, we opted for the 
for SGS applications, such as Boss/FIS, iLayer and  latest generation of Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) 
diversified organization, this is an ever changing 
REPORTING INCIDENTS OrderBoard, we had several criteria. The selected solution  for our European sites, running our applications on 
As the world of information security constantly  and growing area that requires constant vigilance  would not require a huge investment and it would reduce  the latest generation of Oracle Exadata. We allocated 
and innovation. Moving to the cloud is helping us  annual running costs, while offering increased capacity.  Frankfurt as our primary site and Amsterdam as 
changes, we are alert to new risks that may emerge. 
to implement security measures at scale. As more  It would also provide advanced security services  our disaster recovery site.
We use several detection systems that monitor our  to protect our assets, be scalable without an upfront 
of our employees have moved to remote working,  OCI offers many advantages. As well as fast and cost-
network, system infrastructure and applications.  investment, and run on the latest technology. 
we are adapting our response to ensure full  efficient connectivity, it features a flexible, scalable 
Those considered to be the most critical are  protection of SGS assets and data. We are currently  design. It provides Advanced Security Services like 
monitored on a continuous basis; others gather  data encryption and multi-factor authentication. 
carrying out a global inventory of our expertise, 
audit information for analysis in case of enquiries or 
and will centralize some services in order to 
suspicion of fraudulent activity. We monitor response 
ensure a consistently high level across the world.
times to potential incidents according to specific 
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
46
Supply chain management
102-10
103-1-3
Across the more than 125 countries  OUR APPROACH STRATEGIC PILLARS
SGS SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT 
Sustainable Procurement and Supply Chain 
in which we operate, we source  – Defines our non-negotiable minimum 
is one of the four pillars of our Procurement  1. COST AND  
goods and services sustainably,  and Supply Chain Management strategy. standards and specifications for our  CASH FLOW  
supply chain and responsible sourcing
from suppliers that meet our high  LEADERSHIP
Recognizing that we are in a position to influence 
– Applies to all new, critical and high risk 
standards. In 2020 we have  up to 70 000 suppliers to follow our principles  suppliers, who are required to adhere   2. GLOBAL 
and values, we include sustainability criteria 
achieved a strong score in the CDP  to it SOURCING 
in requests for proposals. By participating to 
Supplier Engagement Rating, in  our tenders suppliers must accept our Supplier  – Invites suppliers to work with  SOLUTIONS
SGS to identify and develop 
recognition of our commitment to  Code of Conduct. By doing this, we promote  3. SUSTAINABLE 
continuous improvements
our sustainability standards beyond our own  PROCUREMENT 
reducing emissions and managing  business, causing a ripple effect of change that  – Meets the requirements of the  AND SUPPLY CHAIN
climate risks in our supply chain.  we hope will affect the way that suppliers deal  International Bill of Human Rights and 
not only with us, but with their other customers  the International Labour Organization  4. CONTRIBUTION TO 
and their own suppliers as well. This effect gives  Declaration on Fundamental Principles  INSPECTION AND 
procurement one of the biggest levers to drive  and Rights at Work LABORATORIES OF THE 
sustainability in a global economy. – Covers the areas aligned to SGS’  FUTURE PROGRAM
sustainability pillars: Professional 
In 2020, we worked to develop our sustainable 
Excellence, People, Environment 
procurement strategy. In 2021, we are adding 
and Community
new short-term targets due to be achieved by 
“ If we manage our suppliers 
2023, and long-term targets for achievement  – Is supported by a confidential helpline 
by 2030. for raising concerns about issues  across the world in a way that 
related to the Code  they share SGS values and 
principles, we are making a 
difference to sustainability.” 
  Juergen Nelis
  Vice President Global Procurement & Supply Chain, SGS 
To find out more, see SGS 
Supplier Code of Conduct For more information, see our  
2020 Integrated Annual Report
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
47
Supply chain management
 continued 102-10
103-1-3
308-1
308-2
412-3
414-1
414-2
LOCAL AND GLOBAL SOURCING APPROACH LOCAL VERSUS GLOBAL SPEND BY SGS CATEGORY SPEND VERSUS REVENUE
Our supply chain is diverse and covers over 
100 countries from large industrial to small  19 33.6
SUPPLIERS % %
developing countries. We source products 
and services from global suppliers giving us 
the benefits of financial resilience, quality and 
MATERIAL AND SUPPLIES
security of supply. At the same time, we buy  2020 | 33.6
up to 80% from regional and local suppliers 
2019 | 33.0
that meet our business and sustainability 
14
requirements. These suppliers are often  % 2018 | 32.5
flexible and competitive, and the communities   
we operate in are directly benefiting from 
97 3
our partnerships. % % CAPITAL EXPENDITURE
SPEND BY SGS SUPRA-REGION
LOCAL GLOBAL 23
%
OTHER OPERATIONAL 
SPEND EXPENDITURE
15
%
TRAVEL AND VEHICLES
80 20
% % 23
%
LOCAL GLOBAL EXTERNAL SERVICES
 AMERICAS    EUROPE,     ASIA 
6   AFRICA &  PACIFIC 
%
MIDDLE EAST
GENERAL REPAIRS  17% 48% 35%
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report & MAINTENANCE
48
Supply chain management
 continued 102-10 412-3
103-1-3 414-1
308-1 414-2
308-2
We are committed to doing business with  OUR PERFORMANCE
EXISTING SUPPLIERS ASSESSMENT PROCESS
other companies that share our values and 
beliefs. For effective sustainable supply chain  100
% 1. 2. 3. 4. 5.
management, we must secure buy-in from 
our suppliers to uphold our high standards. 
Over the past three years, we have assessed  of spend analyzed for sustainability risks
SEGMENTATION  ELIMINATION OF  EVALUATION   SAQ  GOVERNANCE 
around 4 000 suppliers globally, which represents  2020 | 100
OF COUNTRIES  LESS CRITICAL  AT COUNTRY  DEPLOYMENT  AND 
approximately one third of our yearly spend. 
This has required enormous effort, with suppliers  2019 | 100 BY LEVEL OF  SUPPLIERS   LEVEL   AND RESULTS  MITIGATION 
RISK  ANALYSIS  PLANS 
spread over 30 countries and speaking  2018 | 100
multiple languages. 24 high- and  Based on spending  5 903 tier 1 suppliers  More than 4 000  58 suppliers 
2014 | –
medium-risk  thresholds and  across 40 countries  suppliers completed  flagged for potential 
EMBEDDING OUR CODE OF CONDUCT countries (29 510  product groups,  were defined as  our SAQ since its  non-compliance or 
suppliers) and 16  defined for each  the final high-risk  deployment in 2018 breaches since 2018, 
We found that using a Self-Assessment  100
% low-risk countries  country risk level target group and need engagement 
Questionnaire to assess local suppliers’  (35 937 suppliers) for governance 
compliance with our standards, as we have  and mitigation
done in the past, is time and resource intensive.  tier 1 suppliers6 analyzed for sustainability risks
In 2020, we explored alternative ways of  EXISTING SUPPLIERS ANALYSIS
addressing the issue of ensuring a sustainable  2020 | 100
supply chain and embedding these values  2019 | 100 2019 2020
into our existing processes. 
2018 | 100 HIGH &  HIGH & 
Besides the assessment of our existing  LOW   MEDIUM  MEDIUM 
2014 | – RISK RISK TOTAL LOW RISK RISK TOTAL
suppliers to ensure local suppliers’ compliance 
with SGS standards we have embedded the  Number of countries (Tier 1) 16 14 30 16 24 40
values and principles into our main points of  46
% Spend (%) 50% 33% 83% 41% 40% 81%
interaction with suppliers. These include supplier 
selection, supplier creation (qualification and  Tier 1 suppliers1 37 873 29 341 67 214 35 937 29 510 65 447
registration into our systems) and ordering.  of spend sourced online  Suppliers analyzed by macro risk assessment (%) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
Suppliers automatically sign up to our Code of 
Conduct when following the SGS procurement  2020 | 46 Suppliers after country level review 1 982 2 530 4 512 1 982 3 921 5 903
process. In addition, in high and medium risk  2019 | 44 Suppliers with actions taken2 690 2 163 2 853 690 3 554 4 244
countries for example in Africa and Asia,  
2018 | 23 1. SGS considers Tier 1 suppliers as those in the top countries
we have proactively requested 1 300 suppliers  
2. S upplier with actions. Self-Assessment Questionnaire submission
to sign our Code of Conduct. To select these  2014 | –
high and medium risk countries we use a macro   
risk analysis of environmental, economic and 
social factors. 
6. I ncludes all active suppliers in the top 40 SGS countries,  
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report covering 81% of our spend
49
Supply chain management
 continued 102-10
103-1-3
414-1
SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT In our standard supplier contract template, we  BETTER | SAFER | MORE INTERCONNECTED
Strategic suppliers are those that are most  state our expectation that our suppliers act in 
important to our business. Taking a different  accordance with environmental, health, safety  Our Strategic Supplier Relationship 
approach to that used for our local suppliers,  and employment policies, comply with relevant  Management program enables us 
we ask strategic suppliers to complete  standards and legislation, continuously improve  to develop meaningful relationships, 
and to share knowledge, best 
a questionnaire requesting financial and  processes and encourage their contractors and 
practice and lessons learnt across 
procurement information and more in- subcontractors to follow the same practices. the network. In addition, suppliers 
depth sustainability information. get an immediate response to 
Our Code of Conduct is directly embedded in 
questions and are able to access 
We also ask them to provide third-party  our terms and conditions, so it is automatically  senior stakeholders. 
validation and to detail the actions they  accepted by each new supplier, regardless of 
are taking to improve their sustainability  country, market, technology, product or service.  NEXT STEPS 
performance. Based on this assessment,  These criteria for doing business with SGS are  We have invested time and effort 
in our partnership initiatives, as 
we prioritize groups or certain suppliers  continuously being developed further so that  illustrated by our response to the 
for partnership sustainability initiatives. suppliers can be better compared based on their  Covid-19 pandemic, digitization in 
compliance with our sustainability standards. our laboratories, and the introduction 
NEW SUPPLIER SELECTION of Artificial Intelligence (AI) tools. 
In our Travel and Fleet category, 
Engaging with new suppliers gives us   DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION   we are introducing electric vehicles 
the opportunity to establish sustainability  IN OUR SUPPLY CHAIN CASE STUDY: CONSOLIDATED PROCUREMENT BRINGS  to contribute towards meeting our 
as a pre-condition of our relationship with  We are constantly reviewing and improving our  MULTIPLE BENEFITS  sustainability targets, and are 
them. Our Group-wide Procurement Policy  supplier selection criteria. SGS North America,  working to reduce the need for, 
THE CHALLENGE OUR SOLUTION and impact of business travel. 
requires sustainability criteria to be evaluated  for example, has launched a Supplier Diversity  Due to our huge global footprint  To continuously improve supply chain  In IT, we are reusing or recycling 
as part of our supplier selection, sourcing  Program to promote diversity among its supply  and multiple business lines, we  integrity and certainty, as well as  computer hardware. In supply-chain 
and contracting processes.  chain and improve the growth and well-being   purchase products and services  quality, service and competitiveness,  management, we are rolling out 
of underrepresented groups in the communities  from a large number and variety  we have selected 12 supplier  vendor management inventory 
of suppliers. Trading with so many  partners with whom to create fully  in a number of locations to 
where we operate. In 2020 the process has 
suppliers means that it is a challenge  integrated relationships. This follows  optimize distribution. 
started with the identification of existing   to ensure sustainability standards  our trend in recent years, of focusing  We have committed significant 
diverse suppliers and the creation of   in the supply chain meet the high  on consolidating procurement by  resources to our Strategic Supplier 
a supplier portal where suppliers meeting  standards of our operations and  purchasing from a smaller number   Relationship Management Program, 
diversity criteria can register to become   our Code of Conduct. of trusted suppliers, helping us to  and we expect this to make a major 
part of the procurement database. ssutapyp mly ocrhea iinnt.e rconnected with our  coof noturrib iunntioovna ttoio tnh ea nadc hsiuesvteamineabntil ity 
goals in 2021, and beyond.
“ By committing to long-term supplier 
relationships we have created trust, 
which is the foundation of any 
meaningful relationship.”
  Juergen Nelis
  VP Global Procurement & SCM
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
50
Our world class facilities
Our global network of best-in-class facilities provides certification  “ Being part of SGS means that  BETTER | SAFER | MORE INTERCONNECTED
and quality verification services to customers worldwide. To ensure  we use the most state-of-the-
the highest standards, each year we invest CHF 400 million to ensure  art equipment available. It’s 
they are kept up-to-date with state-of-the-art equipment. Through our  great to be part of a company 
aspiration to implement a World Class Services program, we are also  that invests so much in the 
creating efficiencies and increasing sustainability through process  future, and where innovation 
optimization in laboratories, field operations and offices. and creativity are encouraged.” 
  Filippo Rota
  VP Strategic Transformation
OVERVIEW We value our customers’ feedback regarding 
We are committed to ensuring that our facilities  our services. Each year as part of our Laboratory 
meet world class standards. Our World Class  Excellence Program, we ask our laboratory 
Services (WCS) methodology is a continuous  customers to complete a survey about their 
improvement approach designed to foster  experience and service from our laboratories. 
a culture which improves safety, quality and  We then use their response to put in place 
efficiency, and eliminates any type of waste and  relevant improvements.
losses. Our goal is to achieve zero accidents, 
zero waste, zero defects and zero breakdowns.  INNOVATING FOR THE FUTURE
This benefits us and our customers, for example  As part of our Laboratories of the Future 
by enabling us to deliver higher testing quality  program, we continuously seek out and invest 
and quicker turnaround times.  in new innovations that have the potential 
to enhance sustainability in our operations –  CASE STUDY: ADOPTING WORLD CLASS 
To date, 20 of our sites have adopted the 
including from our employees. Through our  SERVICES IN SHANGHAI
WCS methodology, along with other selected 
initiatives including process reorganization,  Idea Challenges, we crowdsource ideas from  Shanghai CCL lab passed its first external audit 
across the business. Our Innovation Ecosystems  for World Class Services with flying colors, due 
workflow optimization and automation. 
then promote the development of their ideas  to the outstanding commitment, expertise and 
We have also extended the use of robotics  passion of our people. This achievement recognizes 
into practical solutions. In 2020, we began 
process automation solutions in a range of  the systematic improvements made to eliminate waste 
activities, to reduce human error and improve  to pilot the use of incubators to support  and losses by applying best-in-class methods and 
this innovation development. standards, making our laboratories run even better.
the quality of our services, resulting in 
a notable improvement in productivity.
For further information, see page 22  
of our 2020 Integrated Annual Report
See our film on World Class Services, Shanghai
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
51
HOW HAS SGS’ APPROACH 
TO ITS PEOPLE IN 2020 
CONTRIBUTED TO MAKING 
THE WORLD BETTER, SAFER 
AND MORE INTERCONNECTED?
O  UR PEOPLE “ Our value to society is part of our 
DNA, and it all begins with the 
way we treat our people.”
  Alain Denielle
  C orporate Vice-President, Environment, Health & Safety  
Business Continuity and Integrity Programs
Empowering our people to succeed    52
Talent acquisition and retention  53
Keeping our people safe  55
Diversity and inclusion  59
Training and development  61
Engagement and well-being  63
Rewarding talent  66
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
52
Empowering our people to succeed
103-1-3
Purpose-driven leadership is about creating a safe,  SGS HR FIVE STRATEGIC PILLARS OUR PERFORMANCE
diverse and inclusive environment where our employees  WOMEN IN LEADERSHIP POSITIONS (CEO -3)
are treated fairly and with respect, and are empowered  1. HUMAN RESOURCES 
28.7
to succeed and grow. ALIGNMENT GLOBALLY   %
AND REGIONALLY
2. COMPETITIVE AND 
TRANSPARENT TALENT  2020 | 28.7
ACQUISITION 2019 | 26.7
OUR APPROACH There are five elements to our human resources 
Our people are integral to our business and our  ‘Talent Experience’ approach: talent attraction  3. INTEGRATED   2018 | 26.4
success. Our ability to attract and retain a diverse  and retention, employee engagement and  TALENT MANAGEMENT  2014 | –
workforce, characterized by equal opportunities  well-being, talent development, knowledge  APPROACH
and prospects for advancement, is fundamental  management, and remuneration. 
4. STRENGTHENING  
to our ability to operate.
Our Talent Management strategy relies  EMPLOYEE  
We recognize that workforce expectations have  on promoting performance management,  CAPABILITIES
evolved considerably over the last years, and will  leadership development, succession planning 
continue to do so. Today’s talent is looking for  and employee capability building. It is  5. PROMOTING GROUP-WIDE 
growth, opportunities to shine, variety, flexibility,  implemented at all levels of the organization  CAREER DEVELOPMENT 
mobility and security. Increasingly, people want  in partnership with our leaders, business  OPPORTUNITIES
to work for a company that is purpose-driven  managers and operations teams, to support 
and where they can add value to society. SGS’ business priorities and growth strategy.
SGS’ Human Resources strategy aims to prepare  As an equal opportunities’ employer, we 
our Company for the evolving expectations of  strive to treat everyone fairly, as illustrated 
future generations of employees. We anticipate  by our Code of Conduct which sets out the 
that employees will want to change jobs and  requirements that protect people against 
locations more frequently in the coming decade.  discrimination in our workplace. 
This increased mobility, and new flexible ways 
of working – including remote working – will 
have an important impact on working processes, 
knowledge retention and succession planning 
for SGS, and our strategy reflects this.
1. On a constant currency basis
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
53
Talent acquisition and retention
103-1-3
401-1
Our talent acquisition goal is simple – to attract the best and the right  OUR PERFORMANCE BETTER | SAFER | MORE INTERCONNECTED
people to work at SGS, now and into the future. Having found the right  PEOPLE LEAVING OF THEIR OWN WILL2 
talent to meet our needs, we ensure they are properly onboarded 
10.1
regarding our values, culture and business processes, and engaged  %
to deliver their best. We then seek to retain them by providing 
a work environment in which they can grow.
2020 | 10.1
2019 | 13.6
OUR APPROACH OUR PROGRESS AND PERFORMANCE
2018 | 14.6
We actively seek out the right talent to meet  Our recruitment goals are supported by a range 
our current needs, while engaging with talent  of programs and initiatives. In 2020, we rolled  2014 | –
communities to identify talent we may need  out our new e-recruitment tool, SmartRecruiters, 
in the future. Our structured and candidate- to 23 affiliates. This has already helped to 
centric approach enables us to rely on talent  enhance the speed of hiring, the quality of hires,  EMPLOYEES AROUND THE WORLD  
intelligence to ensure that we increase our hiring  improve communication with managers, and  (FULL-TIME EQUIVALENT END OF PERIOD) 
velocity and quality, to ensure our continued  promote collaborative hiring. It has also helped 
91 698
business success. Our Recruitment Academy  ensure a positive candidate experience and 
provides 100+ of our recruiters and 400+  promote our employer brand.
managers with the knowledge they need to 
Structured, data and intelligence-driven talent 
leverage technology and talent intelligence, 
and collaborate to ensure SGS’ hiring success. attraction and acquisition is also helping us  2020 | 91 698
ensure unbiased decision-making during  2019 | 92 661 CASE STUDY:  
We also put great emphasis on matching  the recruitment process, and increase  SGS JAPAN – ONLINE TALENT ACQUISITION 
talent to value, with a full program in place to  employee diversity. 2018 | 97 464
help us identify and fill strategically-essential  In light of Covid-19, SGS Japan switched to online 
In 2020, we were joined by 18 546 new recruits  2014 | 84 246 candidate interviews and assessments. Benefits 
roles. We continually evolve our HR strategy 
across our business, 37% of them female.  included expanded geographic coverage and making it 
and framework to both meet the demands  easier for employees in the field to be involved in the 
Our natural turnover of employees was 10.1%, 
and optimize the skills of an increasingly  hiring process. This provided candidates with a more 
globalized workforce. well within our Sustainable Ambition target  well-rounded insight into life at SGS, and reduced 
of no more than 15%. turnaround time from application to offer.
Finally, we rely on systematic and meaningful 
onboarding programs – Shine and Shine 
‘fast track’ – to ensure that our new recruits 
are effectively engaged and successfully 
integrated into our business. We have digitized 
our onboarding process, making it more 
accessible and interactive for all employees, 
especially during Covid-19 lockdowns.
2. A s of 2016, this KPI is calculated based on permanent 
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report (fixed-term and open-ended) contracts
54
Talent acquisition and retention
 continued 401-1
OUR TALENT AND ACQUISITION PROGRAMS  NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES 
We have developed a number of programs to support our approach to talent acquisition, 
37 63 18 546
% %
from enhanced training for our recruiters and employing innovative recruitment tools, 
to ensuring our new recruits are set up for success at SGS.
6 862 women 11 684 men total
RECRUITER TRAINING SGS EMPLOYER BRANDING eRECRUITMENT EMPLOYEE ONBOARDING
Our Recruiter Academy  BE 100% YOU, our employer   eRecruitment optimizes  Our global onboarding 
provides our HR  branding campaign, promotes  processes and facilitates  program, Shine, helps 
professionals with training  SGS to potential employees. proactive talent sourcing  new recruits integrate 
on recruitment best practice. and acquisition across the  into life at SGS.
Communication objectives:
SGS network. We do this 
Sample topics: Benefits to SGS 
– Raise awareness  through our SmartRecruiters 
– Talent sourcing techniques  and communicate  systems, and through our  and employees:
– Employer branding  our employer  strategic partnership with  – Supports employees in 
– Recruitment practices  value propositions LinkedIn. SGS has over  their first three months 
– Engage millennials 784,000 LinkedIn followers. at SGS 
– Negotiation techniques
– Builds knowledge of SGS’ 
– Strengthen our 2021  We post: 
operations, services, 
business plan
– Job vacancies  principles, values and aims 
Deployed through: – Employee testimonials – Helps new hires establish 
– Website – Event promotions  their internal network 
– Social media channels – Information about  – Capitalizes on new 
the Company employees’ knowledge 
and enthusiasm 
– Reduces 
employee turnover 
– Tracks progress through 
BE PIONEERING  regular formal and informal 
reviews with managers, 
to identify additional 
BE 100% YOU
employee needs 
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
55
Keeping our people safe
103-1-3
403-1
403-2
403-3
Safety in the workplace, which we call Operational  OUR APPROACH BETTER | SAFER | MORE INTERCONNECTED
To achieve our Operational Integrity (OI) 
Integrity, is a top priority both to protect our employees 
Global Mission of zero accidents and zero 
and drive our business success. We encourage a   harm to our people, we organize our work 
‘no-harm’ culture that prioritizes employee health  in eight pillars. (See page 56 for detail). 
In 2020, we added digitalization.
& safety, alongside environmental protection.
We set long-term safety objectives for each 
area, and report on incidents in our Crystal 
reporting system. We also have a Group-
wide OI Management System that supports 
improvements aligned with internationally-
recognized standards on health, safety 
and the environment. 
At ground level, we regularly host Safe Talks 
for all employees, and hold an annual Safety  CASE STUDY: KEEPING OUR PEOPLE SAFE DURING COVID-19
Month. In 2020, these were held virtually 
The global Covid-19 pandemic  For those who could not work at 
due to Covid-19 restrictions. Our peer-to-
required us to respond quickly  home, we organized shifts so that 
peer safety observation program encourages  and creatively to ensure both our  they could safely work onsite. 
positive reinforcement to promote safe  people’s health and well-being, 
As the pandemic continued, 
behaviors. In 2020, we introduced a new  and our business continuity. we issued weekly reports on the 
eLearning training for all employees to  From the very beginning, we took  number of Covid-19 cases among 
echo our ‘rules for life’, and used hard- steps to make sure that our people  our employees and the number 
understood the severity of the  of sites closed – whether fully or 
hitting posters to remind people of the 
situation, and the measures we  partially. At global, regional and 
consequences of not following OI rules.  were putting in place to protect  local level, our crisis management 
their safety. One such step was an  teams provided practical assistance. 
eLearning module about Covid-19,  To overcome the initial shortage 
explaining the virus and the steps  of personal protective equipment 
we would have to undertake  (PPE), we created a central hub for 
in response. We also kept our  masks in each country in which we 
customers informed, sharing  operate. We also shared information 
statements to reassure them  with staff about well-being, stress 
about the safety of our people  management, ergonomics and 
and continuity in providing services.  even about working with kids 
in the background!
Our business continuity officers 
partnered with local IT teams to 
quickly put in place the necessary 
measures to enable our staff to 
work remotely. In some cases, this 
required expanding our networks 
and obtaining additional licenses. 
Provision was rapidly made for  See our film on keeping our  
key employees across the globe  people safe and engaged during  
to seamlessly work from home.  the Covid-19 pandemic
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
56
Keeping our people safe
 continued 103-1-3
403-1
403-2
403-3
OUR EIGHT OPERATIONAL INTEGRITY PILLARS
1. 2. 3. 4.
COMMUNICATION  RESOURCES AND SKILLS  AUDITS AND COMPLIANCE LEADERSHIP
We aim to educate all SGS employees in the  We regularly review our OI expertise across  Our OI Management System defines the  Our leaders have an integral role to play in 
importance of OI, and make them aware of the  the Group, to ensure that our people have the  criteria to be met to comply with our own  achieving our OI goals and promoting a culture in 
support available to them in contributing towards  high level of skills required. Using our Incident  requirements and with the local laws and  which all employees understand how important 
our OI goals. Communication initiatives include  Investigation Compliance Scores, we help  regulations. To ensure compliance, we audit  OI is to our business. Guided by our OI Lead 
the 15 life-saving principles of our Rules for Life,  countries to identify where OI resources  regions and countries centrally, while local  Adviser app, they conduct frequent site visits, 
and our Annual Safety Month campaign, which  need to be improved. We also provide all OI  OI managers audit our laboratories, offices  engaging in safety-related conversations with 
in October 2020 focused on the topic ‘Zero  employees with online tools to help them stay  and facilities. The audit results go into our  staff and assessing local OI conditions firsthand. 
Tolerance for Non-Compliance’. up-to-date with our Group OI requirements. performance reports, along with incidents  Their performance scores contribute to the 
and hazards information captured in Crystal. OI Cultural Index.
5. 6. 7. 8.
TRAINING AND AWARENESS KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS HEALTH, SAFETY & ENVIRONMENTAL (HSE)  DIGITALIZATION
RISK ASSESSMENTS
Each role at SGS requires specific OI knowledge  Having key performance indicators in place  With so many processes, programs and 
to support the safety and well-being of our  enables us to analyze our OI performance  Risk assessments provide us with critical  regulations and obligations, KPIs, sites and 
employees. To raise their awareness about  across the Group, and evaluate if action needs  insight that enables us to take corrective actions  people, we need robust IT support. We continue 
what knowledge is important and to provide the  to be taken. All OI employees around the world  where needed. All site managers are expected  to enhance our digital reporting system, Crystal, 
technical training required, all employees across  are expected to provide monthly local incident  to perform risk assessments and to develop  and in 2020 added tools for hygiene and 
our operations and corporate sites are given  and risk indicator data, which is captured in our  associated action plans. Employees have the  chemical management, along with new apps 
training onsite standard operating procedures,  OI Crystal system. This data is assimilated into  right to stop work at any time, without reprisal,  and platforms for data inspection. We have also 
along with regular training sessions on Group  regulatory and customer-mandated reports,  if they consider there to be a health, safety  built a dedicated mobile app for job inspectors 
OI Management Systems and Rules for Life.  quarterly key performance indicator analyses  or environmental risk. Any such instances  and lab technicians to use when carrying out 
and trends identification. are reported through our Crystal OI system. a ‘last minute risk assessment’.
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
57
Keeping our people safe
 continued 103-1-3
402-1
402-2
402-3
403-9
OUR PROGRESS AND PERFORMANCE BETTER | SAFER | MORE INTERCONNECTED LOST TIME INCIDENT   BETTER | SAFER | MORE INTERCONNECTED
In 2020, we defined criteria which our OI  RATE (LTIR)3
managers around the world used to identify  (200 000 hours)
‘critical’ and ‘important’ sites across our 
operations. This process resulted in 500  0.23
sites being identified as critical or important, 
giving us the insight needed to now work on 
enhancing safety and resilience. One issue 
highlighted is the need to enhance fire safety.  2020 | 0.23
We have since hired a new fire prevention 
2019 | 0.26
officer, and are working on developing 
a fire prevention strategy. 2018 | 0.25
More than 122 sites, covering more than  2014 | 0.60
14,800 employees, have now achieved 
TOTAL RECORDABLE 
certification in occupational health and safety 
INCIDENT RATE (TRIR)3
standard ISO 45001 (OSHAS 18001) and/or 
(200 000 hours)
environmental management standard ISO 14001. 
We are continually striving to improve our  0.36
results against our 2020 Sustainability 
Ambitions we are within our target of 
halving our Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) 
and Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR);  2020 | 0.36
in 2020, our LTIR and TRIR have decreased  CASE STUDY: HELPING TO PREVENT  CASE STUDY: LOCAL TEAMS LEAD THE WAY
2019 | 0.44
by 62% and 68%, respectively. WORKPLACE INJURIES
2018 | 0.41 Our local teams responded to the pandemic with 
We recognize that the reduction in lost time  SGS Australia hosts monthly Operational Integrity talks  creativity and innovation, modifying their operations 
incidents in 2020 may in part be attributable  on topics such as safety, environmental sustainability,  2014 | 1.11 to ensure employee safety and business continuity. 
wellness and integrity. In July 2020, all staff were invited  Here are just a few examples:
to more people working from home, and a 
greater focus generally on issues of health  tsop ea alikveer ,v Jiratmuael s‘T Walkoiondg,  Ssapfoektye’  amboeuett ihnigs  wowhenr ep egruseosnta l  2.5 MIO I‘nS GPSe rHu,e oaultrh  tTeraamck d’ etov ehleolppe md aan naegwe  raipskpsli caantdio pnr ecavlelendt  
and well-being because of the pandemic. experience of having a workplace injury. The talk  the spread of Covid-19 through a real-time assessment 
received incredible feedback from employees, and as  of the health of workers. 
While we are able to look back at yet another  such, we have decided to make the ‘Talking Safety’ 
year of injury rates well within our target, it  series part of our Safety Awareness Program. hours invested in OI training  As employees in Switzerland returned to work, our 
team there quickly produced more than 450 liters of 
is with deep regret that we report the loss of  for SGS employees
sanitizing solution, in accordance with the World Health 
one life in our operations in 2020. Any fatality  27.9  Organization (WHO) guidelines, for all in-country sites. 
is unacceptable and we will continue to work  hours Our Latin American colleagues were quick to activate 
toward achieving our goal of zero harm.  their Crisis Management Committee, who designed 
and implemented the ‘Business Continuity Plan – 
Covid-19’ which included testing and monitoring 
Operational Integrity training (per  of employee symptoms, and webinars in which 
employee) against a target of 15 hours healthcare professionals shared important information.
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report 3. Against 2014 baseline
58
Keeping our people safe
 continued 103-1-3
403-1
403-2
403-3
HEALTH & SAFETY INITIATIVES BEHAVIOR-BASED SAFETY DROP IN LOST TIME INCIDENT  BETTER | SAFER | MORE INTERCONNECTED
We focus on proactive Leadership, Education and  We use positive reinforcement to change  RATE (LTIR) SINCE 2014
Discipline (LED) activities, each of which delivers  risky behaviors and improve safety performance, 
achievements against one of our eight OI pillars. through our Behavior-Based Safety (BBS) peer- 62%
to-peer observation program.
OI CULTURAL INDEX
To help support decision-making, we monitor  INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE
our progress against OI objectives through our  We strive to protect our employees from disease 
OI Cultural Index (OICI). Each country reports  and fatalities. We use the Chemwatch chemical 
on these indicators, which covers 14 elements,  management tool in 57 languages. We are also  DROP IN TOTAL RECORDABLE 
providing us with an overview that we review  upgrading our Crystal reporting platform with tools  INCIDENT RATE (TRIR)
twice a year. for hygiene and chemical management, as well 
as new apps and platforms for data inspection.  68%
MULTI-TIERED AUDITING
Our auditing strategy is to take a multi-leveled 
audit approach, beginning with annual site audits 
by the in-country team. Audits are entered into 
BETTER | SAFER | MORE INTERCONNECTED
our OI management system, which is then 
reviewed by the central OI team to assess 
both country and regional performance.
OI TRAINING
Our OI training suite includes face-to-face  CASE STUDY: NEW SAFETY ASSESSMENT APP INFORMS 
courses, supervisor-led toolbox talks, Safe Talks  BETTER DECISIONS 
(regular safety meetings on key topics) and  Prior to starting a job, SGS  Check Status provides the critical last 
eLearning modules (some in multiple languages),  employees or contractors are  level of review necessary to address 
a 12-module OI Awareness eLearning course for  encouraged to stop and carry out  any risk in working conditions or in 
a three-minute assessment of the  the environment before work begins. 
all business and site managers, and dedicated 
environment and working conditions,  The app enables employees and 
OI training days for Chief Operating Officers and  using the Check Status app. Asking  contractors to conduct a check 
Executive Vice Presidents. Where needed, we  questions such as: ‘What could  quickly and easily. Available in 
also run courses on specific issues. For example,  happen if I proceed? Would I be  local languages, teams can create 
completely safe? Do I have the  or edit their own ‘operations’ and 
in countries with a high level of road safety risk, 
CASE STUDY: ENHANCING DRIVER SAFETY  correct working equipment, tools,  ‘checkpoints’, to address local 
we install in-vehicle monitoring systems, and  training and protection to perform  situations and risks. Any SWA 
IN THE UAE AND SAUDI ARABIA 
provide employees with associated training.  the job?’ helps the employee to  situation is automatically reported as 
In an initiative designed to reduce driving risks, SGS UAE  make an informed decision to  a hazard record in the Crystal hazard/
and Saudi Arabia have rolled out the Brightmile app. The  proceed, proceed with caution  risk module, and a digital SWA card 
goal is to monitor compliance with Rules for Life related  or, if known risks are present and  supports direct calls to the relevant 
to transportation safety, namely: follow speed limits,  not controlled, to invoke a Stop  supervisor to discuss a solution, 
manage fatigue and ‘engine on, cell phone away’. The app  Work Authority (SWA). or even escalate a matter to Global 
provides instant feedback to drivers on their performance  operational integrity contacts.
in five key driving behaviors: harsh acceleration, risk, 
speeding, fatigue, and distraction.
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
59
Diversity and inclusion
103-1-3
405-1
As a global organization with over 89 000 employees 
DIVERSITY BALANCE
worldwide, we recognize the value that diversity brings 
to our business. Our workforce is characterized by  CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER-3* MANAGERS EMPLOYEES
diversity of nationality, culture, religion, age, sexual 
orientation and gender.
28.7 33.1 35.5
% % %
OUR APPROACH OUR PROGRESS AND PERFORMANCE
As set out in our SGS Business Principles,  To make sure we are increasing the 
Code of Integrity and Human Rights Policy,  diversity of our hiring, in 2020 we trained  WOMEN  WOMEN  WOMEN 
we do not tolerate any form of discrimination.  100+ recruiters on recruitment best practices 
71.3 66.9 64.5
As a diverse employer, we value the skills,  and talent acquisition, and 400+ managers  % % %
knowledge and cultural diversity that local  in recruitment, interviewing and diversity 
people bring to our organizations and as  best practices. We are also measuring 
such, we actively seek to engage them  the gender diversity of our applicants. 
MEN MEN MEN
within our teams. 
Many affiliates have accelerated the move 
*  - 3 indicates three positions below the CEO
Our managers undergo annual training in  towards embracing diversity and inclusion. 
principles of non-discrimination through  In Australia, for example, we have achieved 
a number of programs. Targets are set  50/50 gender diversity and ethnic minorities  BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND OPERATIONS COUNCIL
and monitored locally according to local  are well represented. (See case study on 
conditions, regulations and ethnic makeup.  page 60) 1
0 1 9
We actively manage discrimination risks  We have local programs aimed at increasing 
and closely monitor our performance on  the number of women in managerial and 
gender equality. Unless local laws specifically  leadership roles. Regarding the gender 
WOMAN 
require us to, we are committed to avoid  pay gap, we have simplified and increased 
UNDER 30   OVER 50  
positive discrimination, but rather recruit the  transparency around remuneration, and we 
26 YEARS OLD YEARS OLD
best candidate for the job, removing bias  are also introducing equal benefits for men 
due to a documented, data driven decision- and women taking time off to look after 
making approach. We are also committed to  a new baby.
offer equal remuneration and development  In 2020, a diverse working group made  MEN  8
opportunities to all our employees. 
up of HR, sustainability and business team 
14
members established a new strategy for 
SGS’ diversity and inclusion, which will 
be communicated early 2021. 30–50  
YEARS OLD
NATIONALITIES 
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
60
Diversity and inclusion
 continued  103-1-3
DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION PROGRAMS The program has helped to support women  BETTER | SAFER | MORE INTERCONNECTED
To support our commitment to fair treatment  from being an assistant in a remote location to 
for all and ensuring diversity and equal  a laboratory manager, or even a country-level  We’re focusing on building bold 
opportunities, we have implemented a number  manager. We use information from all relevant  leadership to drive the cultural 
of programs. This begins at recruitment, and our  projects to assess and analyze our efforts,  change. For example, one of our 
managers in Energy Minerals, 
online eLearning for recruiters places a strong  and share learnings. 
has a particular focus on engaging 
emphasis on diversity and equal opportunities. We also have ethnic diversity-focused initiatives  Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander 
people. He has reached out to local 
We run programs to increase the number  in several countries. For example, in South 
schools and communities to attract 
of women in managerial and leadership  Africa, we participate in the Yes4Youth initiative.  new employees. We have also 
roles at a local level.  This gives unemployed black youth a dignified  used traineeships to help provide 
first chance at work so that they can contribute  education to diverse groups. 
to their families, households and communities. We have achieved gender balance 
in executive roles and are working 
to targets to increase the 
percentage of females in non-
manager and manager roles, as 
well as to increase representation 
of diverse groups in our workforce.
NEXT STEPS
CASE STUDY: EMBEDDING DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION  Among our next steps, we are 
supporting our managers to 
INTO OUR CULTURE 
continue their journey on becoming 
bold inclusive leaders through 
THE CHALLENGE We surveyed our workforce to  training, role modeling and 
At SGS Australia, we recognized  understand who, where and what  recognizing their achievements. 
that we could do more to recruit and  our underrepresented groups were.  We are creating allied networks, 
retain high-quality employees from  The diversity data survey set the  and are reviewing and identifying 
diverse backgrounds, in order to  baseline data and also provided  ways in which we can remove 
remain a leader in our field, and we  us with employee feedback so  barriers for employment for 
wanted to ensure that SGS is a great  we can build on our action plans. people with disabilities and carer 
place to work for all our employees.  responsibility. We will continue 
Among our actions, we launched 
Our customers are also increasingly  to measure progress and redesign 
the Inclusion Council enabling 
interested in making sure that we  action plans to continue furthering 
employees to work with us on 
have a comprehensive diversity  our journey. 
achieving our targets and identifying 
and inclusion strategy in place. 
areas of opportunity. We are raising 
awareness across the business of 
OUR SOLUTION
our vision of ‘Be 100% You’. And 
In 2020, we launched a new diversity 
we made policy changes such as 
and inclusion strategy, focused on 
removing the qualifying period for 
five main areas – gender, LGBTIQ+, 
paid parental leave and relaunched 
Culture (Including Aboriginal and 
our flexible work policy. 
Torres Strait Islander people), 
disability and overall inclusion. 
See our film on the diversity and 
inclusion strategy at SGS Australia
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
61
Training and development
103-1-3
404-1
404-3
By giving our people training  To ensure we have the right management  OUR PROGRESS AND PERFORMANCE 4.3 
MIO HOURS
and leadership skills to meet our future  Having introduced our knowledge management 
and development opportunities, 
needs, we systematically assess management  platform, SGS Campus, the previous year, 
we not only support them to  effectiveness, required skills, and expected  in 2020 we worked with SGS internal subject 
grow as individuals and team  behaviors and use a comprehensive framework  matter experts to capture key knowledge  of training completed by SGS employees  
as a foundation to reinforce our leadership  and create engaging training material. around the world
members; we also maintain 
capabilities for the future.
72 000 of our employees can now access 
our own quality standards.
more than 1 300 courses available at any time  86
PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT
and from anywhere, which will enable us to  %
Performance management, feedback and 
nurture a knowledge-sharing culture.
OUR APPROACH recognition are crucial to achieving both 
Talent development is part of SGS’ HR strategy  employee personal development goals and our  Covid-19 has also accelerated the introduction 
of employees received performance appraisals
and is implemented at all organizational levels.  business goals. Our performance management  of this learning culture, which is more self-
We tailor our talent development programs to  process is detailed in our Performance  directed, on-demand, shorter and continuous. 
suit local market conditions, business needs, and  Management Policy. It is the joint responsibility  This will continue to be the focus throughout 
employee expectations, ensuring that our highly- of each employee and their manager, supported  the coming year. During the course of 2020,  “ Our SGS Campus has been 
skilled and engaged talents are equipped to meet  by our human resources teams.  a group of over 60 managers, representing 
transformed this year. We have 
the needs of our customers across the globe. a variety of SGS affiliates and business lines, 
We expect employees to be proactive about 
developed a simple and meaningful framework  significantly improved the 
We follow the 70:20:10 model of training and  setting their own performance goals, evaluating 
to ensure that we are systematically assessing 
development, meaning that 70% should come  their achievements and identifying learning  employee learning experience 
management effectiveness. This framework 
from learning in the flow of work, 20% should  opportunities. Meanwhile, managers must 
will form the foundation on which we will build  and engagement. This has been 
come from social learning and 10% should be  be clear about expectations and deliverables, 
in the form of formal education. evaluate, critically discuss and recognize  our strategy for reinforcing SGS’ leadership  instrumental to our ability to 
capabilities in the coming years.
performance, support career management and  successfully navigate through 
We aim to make all our knowledge and training 
encourage continuous learning. This process  Globally, our training ratio in 2020, which 
content from across our businesses available  Covid-19, when most of our 
also ensures transparency and fairness in dealing  measures training cost (including hours) as 
to all our employees, and encourage our 
with unsatisfactory performance and identifies  a percentage of employment cost slightly  employees were working from 
employees to lead their own development. 
and manages development barriers.  decreased to 2.51%. 
Our learning management platform, SGS  home. Our vision for learning is 
Campus, helps us to advance this learning  In 2020, we continued to move towards a more  to enable access to all, at any 
philosophy and knowledge-sharing culture,  continuous feedback culture to ensure timely 
giving employees access to content, and the  actions and recognition for our employees.  time and from anywhere.”
ability to share knowledge and set up training  We also formed a task group responsible for 
  Luz Hoyos 
programs from anywhere, using any device. re-imagining the performance management    Global Head of Talent Development
process. Our aim is to make it more employee-
centered and build the coaching capabilities of 
our managers. We want to make the process 
more continuous and engaging, adapting it to 
the current context and ensuring a tighter link 
between manager and employee.
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
62
Training and development
 continued 103-1-3
404-2
OUR TRAINING PROGRAMS TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM HOURS 
Our online employee learning portal, SGS 
Campus, is our central resource, providing  2 483 305 820 126
training on more than 15 subjects related to 
specific roles, systems or management and 
leadership, available in more than 20 languages. 
operational Integrity  technical and sales 
We continually develop new training modules, 
covering topics such as Operational Integrity 
(safety), technical and sales training, our Code  97 109 342 497
of Integrity. We offer training tailored for trainees 
and new recruits, refresher courses for existing 
employees, and leadership training for our 
managers and leaders of the future. trainee programs  management and 
leadership development
We have also introduced a new tool that enables 
us to offer bite-sized content in an engaging, 
70 151 535 992
interactive way, which has increased adoption 
and improved the learning experience. 
In 2020, to further develop our leaders, we 
leveraged our partnership with IMD Business  compliance other training
School in Lausanne, Switzerland to provide  
five- and eight-week leadership development 
courses for 18 of our leaders.
Overall, our approach has been successful in 
engaging our employees, especially in light of the 
restrictions of Covid-19, with 72 000 employees 
accessing training on a monthly basis. 
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
63
Engagement and well-being
102-41 403-5
103-1-3 403-6
401-3 403-7
402-1 403-8
403-3 403-10
403-4
The well-being of our employees depends on how happy they  SGS CATALYST SURVEY 2020 
EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATION AND CONSULTATION
are at work and the opportunities they have to stay healthy  We respect our employees’ right to have collective 
EMPLOYEE PARTICIPATION 
and active. And by engaging them in our business, we inspire  representation and to enter into collective bargaining 
32 262 agreements where this is accepted by local law. We strictly 
them to greater commitment, and motivate them to perform 
adhere to tariff structures and arrangements negotiated with 
productively and efficiently. trade unions, while we also inform and consult employees on 
relevant business activities. For example, we respect statutory 
minimum notice periods and give reasonable notice of any 
employees invited 
OUR APPROACH Well-being at work significant operational changes in line with local practices and 
We see employee engagement as essential to  We provide well-being initiatives that are globally  labor markets. Our affiliates’ communication and consultation 
74
talent retention and managing our natural turnover  consistent, but tailored to the needs and resources  % processes are tailored to local needs.
across the Group. Managing this at both global  of local affiliates. These range from health & safety 
Within the European Union for example, the SGS European 
and local levels, we monitor engagement and  training programs to flexible working hours and 
Works Council (otherwise known as the Euroforum) ensures 
correlate it to retention and other HR metrics. semi-retirement plans.
response rate constructive dialog with elected employee representatives 
Encouraging employee feedback We promote healthy, safe and ergonomic  on relevant transnational issues.
We value feedback and encourage employees  workplaces, and we monitor lighting intensity,  ENGAGEMENT INDEX
to voice their opinions via our voluntary annual  noise levels, indoor air quality, humidity and  41
employee engagement survey, Catalyst.  temperature levels in our buildings. We provide  70/100 %
Our managers then use this input to launch  training, workshops and occupational healthcare 
improvement actions with their teams. As a  assessments to guide our employees on 
minimum, each SGS affiliate is required to put in  maintaining a healthy and safe work environment.  of SGS employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements
place one action plan for implementation within  We also facilitate remote working, which became  2020
6-12 months. We follow up after changes have  particularly important in 2020 in light of Covid-19.
been implemented to check if improvements 
We also provide different childcare facilities in  71/100
have been made.
many of our affiliates. Some of our offices count 
We require affiliates to communicate best  with special rooms equipped with armchairs and 
practices globally so that learnings can be shared.  freezes dedicated to breastfeeding. We also offer 
We have trained our appointed Catalyst Regional  our employees the possibility of flexible working  2019
and Country Champions and our Human Resources  arrangements such as flexible check-in and check-
to act as facilitators, providing support through the  out, remote or part-time working to promote work- 68/100
overall survey process and action planning phase,  life balance. Many of our affiliates also provide paid 
and following up on progress. maternity and paternity leave in excess of legally 
required minimum. For example, SGS Switzerland 
offers 16 weeks of maternity leave paid at 100% 
2018
and 5 paid days for paternity leave. SGS Australia 
offers 8 weeks of paid maternity leave in excess 
of the local legally required minimums and SGS 
South Africa, offers 5 paid days while local 
regulation provides 3 paid days.
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
64
Engagement and well-being
 continued 403-3
403-4
403-5
403-6
403-7
403-8
OUR PROGRESS AND PERFORMANCE “ Catalyst, our employee engagement  BETTER | SAFER | MORE INTERCONNECTED
With many employees working from home 
program, enables employees around 
in 2020, it became all the more important 
to find ways in which to engage with them,  the world the opportunity to voice 
and look out for their well-being. We divided  their feedback about working for 
our employee engagement program into two 
SGS and provides us with actionable 
parts. The first was a simplified version of our 
Catalyst annual global survey for employees,  insights that can help us build a better 
with 10 general questions, followed by a section 
experience at all stages of the employee 
that affiliates could customize with specific 
questions relevant to their employees. journey. It is important to create a 
sustainable, effective feedback-insight-
We also introduced multiple short surveys using 
Catalyst Pulse, so that we could get quick feedback  action cycle. Engagement needs to be 
from employees in a rapidly changing situation.
integrated into ongoing conversations 
In a Covid-19 Catalyst Pulse survey of more 
and practices. After all, it’s all about 
than 7 500 employees in 13 countries and one 
subregion, we had a 63% response rate and  action that fuels change.”
received positive feedback on this new approach. 
  Ana Bidaud 
These pulse surveys helped affiliates better 
  Global Employee Engagement Manager
understand the most critical needs of their 
employees, the key challenges they were facing 
while working remotely, and ways in which 
we could better support them through these 
unprecedented times.
Some affiliates, including Australia, Peru and 
Ecuador, went even further, checking on the 
engagement of their employees and further 
CASE STUDY: PROMOTING EMPLOYEE WELL-BEING THROUGHOUT 
exploring the employee experience, by running 
THE PANDEMIC 
different Catalyst Pulse surveys focused on 
areas such as Diversity and Inclusion, Manager  In 2020, our affiliates around the world worked  In Argentina, our leaders participated 
to support the well-being of employees during  in virtual coaching sessions on remote 
Effectiveness, and Quarterly Engagement.
the pandemic. In Ghana, for example, as well  management, while employees received 
as facilitating remote working, we held weekly  discounts on food, technology products 
update meetings with our employees, and  and training, and enjoyed weekly virtual 
provided Uber services for those without  yoga classes.
their own car. 
In Ireland, we offered all SGS employees 
7/24/365 access to a free, confidential 
Employee Assistance Program, which 
includes counseling, financial management 
and legal advice. 
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
65
Engagement and well-being
 continued
EMPLOYEE RECOGNITION ACTIVITIES BETTER | SAFER | MORE INTERCONNECTED
We received more than 2 000 
drawings and distributed prizes 
throughout our network. 
The second initiative, in December, 
was the SGS People – 15 Day 
Challenge, hosted by Lëss the bear. 
We organized several activities for 
employees, their families and local 
communities, including a recognition 
challenge, where employees publicly 
DRAWING CONTESTS AND QUIZZES ABOUT OUR LEADERS thanked their colleagues internally 
through Yammer; a children’s 
drawing contest; a fun fact quiz about 
some of our global and local leaders; 
and a fundraiser for local food banks. 
Participation was incredible: 
over 60 countries in the network 
participated at the same time 
in one or several initiatives; 
over 1 000 people praised their 
colleagues through the corporate 
social network; we received over 
1 500 drawings; over 2 000 people 
took part in the quiz; and we raised 
COMMUNITY ACTIVITIES more than CHF 80 000, exceeding 
our target, which is now being 
distributed to local foodbanks 
and other charity organizations. 
CASE STUDY: BRINGING OUR PEOPLE TOGETHER AROUND 
THE WORLD NEXT STEPS
Following the success of these 
initiatives and the great feedback 
THE CHALLENGE OUR SOLUTION
we received, we are planning to 
Along with keeping our people  We launched two initiatives to 
make the SGS People Challenge 
safe and ensuring business  reinforce a sense of community. The 
an annual event, to strengthen our 
continuity, one of our major  first, a weekly drawing contest, took 
SGS community and make us even 
concerns when the Covid-19  place in April, while most countries 
more interconnected, bringing our 
pandemic hit was to maintain the  were in their first lockdown. For five 
employees closer together.
well-being and engagement of our  weeks, our employees’ children 
employees. Fully aware that many of  were encouraged to get creative 
them were struggling to work from  while learning about themes such 
home while caring for their families,  as nature, careers and environmental 
we sought to lift their spirits and  protection. They also had to draw 
help them feel less alone during  Lëss the bear, the SGS mascot. 
this challenging period. 
See our film on keeping our  
people safe and engaged during  
the Covid-19 pandemic
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
66
Rewarding talent
102-36
102-37
102-38
102-39
401-2
Our goal is to offer our existing  In order to encourage profit sharing and to 
SGS FIXED AND VARIABLE REMUNERATION
reward performance, selected SGS employees 
and future talent a competitive 
are eligible for variable remuneration elements 
compensation package, to attract,  in addition to their fixed remuneration.  REMUNERATION   REMUNERATION  
ELEMENT VEHICLE PURPOSE
engage, motivate and retain them. 
We offer both short-and long-term incentives  FIXED   Annual base salary Cash Attract and retain key talent
We systematically assess the  to our management team, linked to the  REMUNERATION
financial performance of the Company. 
competitiveness of our reward  Benefits Contributions to pension  Protect employees 
2020 marked the end of a four-year strategic  plans and insurances, other  against risks, attraction 
practices in all the markets  contributions, allowances  and retention
period focusing on margin and cost control. 
and benefits in kind
in which we operate. In light of the effects of Covid-19, we 
implemented conservative and selective pay  VARIABLE   Short-term incentive Cash Pay for performance
OUR APPROACH increase criteria in 2020, and are addressing  REMUNERATION
our approach for 2021.
We recognize that reward plays a key role in  Long-term incentive Restricted Share Units   Reward for long-term 
attracting, engaging, motivating and retaining  (RSUs) performance, retain key 
VARIABLE REMUNERATION talent, align compensation 
talent at SGS. To ensure that we remain 
Short-Term Annual Incentives with the interests of 
competitive, we benchmark our compensation  the shareholders
Employees who are eligible for a short-term 
practices against local markets, and continue 
Incentive plan receive an annual cash incentive, 
to adapt our approach as the employment 
based on Company and individual financial 
environment evolves. By using a common job 
architecture, organized around a common job- targets and on individual qualitative goals. CEO AND MEAN EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION RATIO*
grading methodology and a common job catalog,  Long-Term Incentive Plans
we ensure alignment throughout our businesses 
Employees who are eligible for a long-term  2020 2019 2018
and affiliates, and facilitate internal mobility.
Incentive plan receive Restricted Share Units 
As established by our Code of Integrity, we  (RSUs). In 2020, 286 employees at different  25.6 29.2 25.6
% % %
are committed to comply with the applicable  levels in the organization who demonstrated 
legislation in the countries where we operate.  outstanding performance were granted 
This included minimum wages and mandatory  RSUs. One RSU gives the participant the 
social contribution requirements.  conditional right to receive, free of charge, one 
underlying SGS share at the end of the vesting 
Our employees’ annual fixed salary and  period (three years), subject to continuity  *  T o make the ratio comparable, we have implemented cost of living adjustments using the Purchasing Power Parity 
its progression are defined based on their  conversion rates and it is calculated based only on base salary and bonuses (excluding pension funds and extra hours)
of employment during the vesting period. 
performance, competencies and experience. 
We also offer benefits such as healthcare  In 2020, we have also approved the inclusion 
plans and occupational pension plans, in  of sustainability metrics in the Long Term 
accordance with local market practices.  Incentive Plan. Further information will be 
publicly available in the coming months.
For more information on our remuneration policy,  
see page 99 our Integrated Annual Report 2020:  
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report www.sgs.com/en/annual-report
67
WHAT HAVE WE DONE IN 2020 TO 
MAKE THE WORLD BETTER, SAFER 
AND MORE INTERCONNECTED?
ENVIRONMENT “ Protecting the environment and tackling 
climate change is essential to making the 
world better and safer for everyone. We 
continually look for ways to reduce our 
environmental impact, maintain our status 
as a carbon neutral company, enable a 
low carbon economy, and ensure that we 
improve the world for future generations.”
  Paula Ordoñez
  Global Head of Corporate Sustainability
Protecting our planet  68
Our carbon neutrality strategy  69
Our science-based targets  70
Reducing energy consumption  71
Renewable energy  73
Carbon offsetting  74
Climate change risks and opportunities  75 
Responsible use of natural resources  76
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
68
Protecting our planet
102-12
102-13
103-1-3
Protecting the planet is a social, economic and ethical,  BETTER | SAFER | MORE INTERCONNECTED
CORPORATE 
as well as environmental, imperative. As a recognized  SUSTAINABILITY TEAM 
sustainability leader, we are committed to minimizing  RESPONSIBILITIES
our environmental footprint and delivering sustainable  ✓  Setting strategy for 
value to society. We follow a carbon neutrality strategy,  Energy Efficiency in 
Buildings program
use resources efficiently and reduce waste.  ✓  Ensuring all affiliates 
deliver on energy targets 
and responsibilities 
OUR APPROACH Evaluating and managing the risks and  ✓  Establishing and 
The world is facing a climate emergency,  opportunities associated with climate  communicating SGS’ 
Vehicle Emissions Policy 
and natural resources are being used  change is a priority for SGS, and to this end 
✓  Facilitating access to 
up faster than they can be replenished.  we are adopting the recommendations of 
sustainability best practices 
Protecting the environment is an ongoing  the Task Force on Climate-related Financial  for the affiliates 
challenge for businesses of all sizes,  Disclosures (TCFD).  ✓  Embedding climate 
in all industries, all over the world.  change risks and 
We were one of the first companies to sign 
opportunities management 
We have set science-based targets,  up for RE100, committing to a transition  and TCFD adoption
approved by the Science Based Targets  to using 100% renewable energy. We also  ✓  Promoting energy 
Initiative, to ensure that we are cutting our  support the United Nations Climate Neutral  efficiency,water reduction 
emissions in line with limiting warming to  Now initiative, which encourages companies,  and circular economy  CASE STUDY: EMPOWERING EMPLOYEES TO ADD VALUE 
projects and awareness-
below two degrees. We have been working  organizations, governments and citizens to  WITH LËSS 
raising initiatives
hard to develop a new strategy that will  reduce and compensate for their greenhouse 
Launched in 2019, our Add  Our aim is to empower employees 
push us further, towards higher, even more  gas emissions. 
Value with Lëss initiative invites  to drive operational efficiency, 
demanding targets in areas like water and  employees to follow ‘Lëss the bear’  reduce time, energy and operational 
In addition to taking action on climate change, 
waste management.  and contribute to making our work  waste, and minimize our 
we are monitoring and minimizing our water  more efficient and sustainable.  environmental footprint.
To help us strengthen our sustainability  usage, as well as waste. We work to raise awareness and 
We will be relaunching this 
performance, we establish external partnerships  Partnerships are critical to our ability to tackle  cwhoarnkgfoer cbee haarovuionrds  afocuror s‘psa owusr ’ or  initiative in 2021 with a global 
and take part in initiatives, including: communications campaign.
systemic challenges, both within our sector  pillars: processes; environment; 
✓ RE100 and beyond, to exchange good practices and  people and quality.
✓ Climate Neutral Now to improve our sustainability performance.
✓ Science Based Targets initiatives
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
69
Our carbon neutrality strategy
103-1-3
Our carbon neutrality strategy  CARBON INTENSITY PER EMPLOYEE1,2 
OUR STRATEGY, BASED ON THESE THREE PILLARS, IS SET CONSIDERING THE SCIENCE BASED 
has three pillars: reducing energy  Metric tons CO2e/FTE TARGETS (SBTI) CRITERIA
consumption at source, using  1.4
CLIMATE CHANGE  REDUCING ENERGY  CARBON  
renewable energy whenever possible, 
MITIGATION  CONSUMPTION  OFFSETTING  
and offsetting residual emissions   STRATEGY We reduce energy consumption  STRATEGY
at source, including in our  We compensate 
and offsetting residual emissions.   2020 | 1.4 offices and in transport for any residual 
carbon emissions  
It is based on Science Based   2019 | 1.7 through our 
offsetting  
Targets Initiative (SBTi) criteria. 2018 | 1.7 strategy
2014 | 2.6
OUR PROGRESS AND PERFORMANCE
We measure and report our CO  emissions  Vehicle emissions  
including our direct and indirect 2carbon  RENEWABLE ENERGY  policy
GWh
emissions across our value chain. CO2  Reduce   Residual 
We set a target of achieving a 20% reduction  421 emissions econnersguym  ption CO2 emissions
in carbon emission intensity by revenue   Energy efficiency 
by 2020, against a 2014 baseline that was  Reduce CO2 in buildings
achieved far already in previous years. 
During 2020, we have continued improving   2020 | 421 COMPANY 
our performance. We achieved A- in CDP’s  ACTIVITIES
2019 | 422
rating for best-practice initiatives against  USING RENEWABLE 
climate change. The annual ranking recognizes  2018 | 416 ENERGY 100% renewables  
SGS’s tangible actions to manage climate   Whenever possible,   from supplier Compensate  
2014 | 219 we use renewable  residual  
risks across our operations.
energy, either   emissions
SGS also achieved an A- score in CDP’s   CARBON INTENSITY BY REVENUE  generated onsite  
or purchased Self-generate
Supplier Engagement highlighting our  Metric tons CO2e/Million CHF2
commitment to implementing actions   Read more:
to reduce emissions and manage   21.9 Grid mix energy
Climate change 
climate risks in our supply chain.
mitigation on 
page 70
Purchase
Renewable 
2020 | 21.9 energy on  
1. Based against 2014 baseline 2019 | 26.0 page 73 Renewable   Carbon  
2. Mo f amrkeette-rbeads edda tfiag aunrde sre. Efrxigceluradnets g daissetrsic et mheisastiinogn sd duue et ot ou unnavaavialailbabiliitliyt y  2018 | 27.6 Carbon  CeErntiefircgayte  s offsets
of data. Scope 3 emissions only include Category 3: business travel.  offsetting on 
Please refer to our Basis of Reporting 2014 | 42.5 page 74
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
70
Our science-based targets
103-1-3
We have committed to reducing  45%1 GHG EMISSIONS
SOURCE EMISSIONS2 (tCO2e)
greenhouse gas emissions through 
the Science Based Targets initiative,  SCOPE 13
which advocates the setting  reduction in CO2 emissions for  Fuels emissions (vehicle and non-transport) 98 274
scopes 1, 2 and 3 (business travel)2  
of targets and deadlines in line  by 2025
SCOPE 24
with climate science in order  55%1
to future-proof growth.  Electricity emissions 11 864
SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS SOURCE
A science-based target is one that contributes 
to the limiting of global warming to well below  rsecdoupcetsio 1n,  i2n  aCnOd 23 e (mbuisssinioensss  ftorar vel)2  Purchased goods and services 409 869
2°C above pre-industrial levels.  by 2030
Fuel- and energy-related activities 
OUR PROGRESS AND PERFORMANCE  50%1 (not included in Scope 1 and Scope 2) 173 553
The initiative provides companies with 
Capital goods 138 991
a clearly defined pathway to future-proof 
growth by specifying how much and how 
Employee commuting 90 570
quickly they need to reduce their greenhouse  reduction in CO2 emissions 
gas emissions. These targets are considered  for scope32 By 2030 Business travel 12 813
science-based if they are in line with the  “  Science-based targets are 
level of decarbonization required to keep  important for both climate  Waste generated in operations 3 654
the global temperature increase below 
action and businesses.  TOTAL 829 450
two degrees Celsius compared to pre-
industrial temperatures. They provide a framework 
SGS commits to reducing greenhouse gas  to ensure that a business is 
emissions through the science-based targets  taking the action needed to 
initiative under which we have committed 
help limit global warming, 
to a series of specific targets, in addition 
to our 2020 targets. going beyond incremental 
Our progress shows that we are well on track   cuts to their carbon footprint.”
to achieve these targets in the coming years.
  Victor Parrilla, 
  Corporate Sustainability Senior Manager
1. Against a 2014 baseline
2. S copes are defined according to the GHG protocol
3.  Emissions from refrigerants not included due to unavailability of data
4. M  arket-based figures. Excludes district heating due to unavailability  
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report of metered data. Please refer to our Basis of Reporting
71
Reducing energy consumption
103-1-3
As a sustainability leader that recognizes the threat  The guidelines define minimum requirements   +670 BETTER | SAFER | MORE INTERCONNECTED
posed by global climate change, we are setting  in the above mentioned areas, setting this way  
the benchmark for reduced energy consumption.  a minimum sustainability performance level  
Through initiatives such as our Energy Efficiency  for any new building across SGS.
in Buildings (EEB) program, sustainable transport  buildings in EEB program covering 
and Green IT, we are actively reducing our own  GREEN IT over 80% of consumption 
energy consumption at source. We are also moving  The amount of energy required to power 
away from fossil fuel based sources of energy by  global IT needs will triple over the next decade.  83
transitioning to renewable energy.  The steps that we are taking to implement our  %
strategy will therefore become increasingly 
IMPROVING ENERGY EFFICIENCY IN BUILDINGS important in the coming years.
The energy used in our 2 600 offices and 
Our progress and performance of energy consumption from 
laboratories worldwide accounts for 62% of our  SGS buildings is covered by 
global energy consumption. It is therefore a key  Our well-established Green IT Policy ensures  the EEB program 
area of focus for us to reduce energy use. that we are reducing the impact of IT across our 
organization, with a focus on energy efficiency, CO 
Our progress and performance emission reductions, and hardware and e-waste  2 +470
We evaluate and reduce energy consumption  management. Our Policy also covers sustainable 
in new and existing buildings across the Group  data centers and migrating servers to the Cloud. 
through our EEB program. We focus our energy  We achieved our commitment to migrate 80% 
reduction efforts at our highest consumption  of the servers we had in 2018. energy conservation 
measures identified
buildings, and provide action plans setting out 
To improve the energy efficiency of the remaining 
steps for them to become more energy efficient. 
data centers, we use dedicated cold aisles 
95
678 of our buildings are currently covered by our  instead of air conditioning entire rooms and, in  %
EEB program, accounting for 85% of electricity  our headquarters in Geneva, we use the removed 
and 77% of non-transport fuels consumption.  heat from the cold aisles to warm our offices.
This exceeds our 2020 target for the program to 
total electricity consumption 
cover 80% of our energy consumption. So far, we 
from renewables
have identified 471 energy conservation measures  CASE STUDY: USING LED LIGHTING TO SAVE ENERGY IN INDIA 
through energy assessments in our key facilities. 
We are continuing to improve the energy efficiency of our buildings in 
That constitutes the basis of our project pipeline, 
THE EEB PROGRAM  India through this investment in LED Lighting and Sensors, we expect to 
increasing yearly, to implement the solutions that  save about 87 000 units of energy per annum and corresponding reduction 
allow us to increase our energy efficiency. ✓ Defines common standard for all  in CO2 emissions. We are installing LED lighting at our new locations. 
SGS buildings We have also invested nearly INR 1.5 million (approximately $20 000) 
The SGS Green Building Guidelines support the  in LED Sensors and Lighting Energy Savings projects at four of our 
delivery of our EEB program, providing a rating  ✓ Provides energy efficiency action plans existing locations – Ahmedabad, Baroda, Ambattur and Tirupur.
tool for assessing new buildings. Key performance  ✓ Puts forward environmental performance 
indicators include a comprehensive range of topics  improvement measures
such as energy, water, pollution, transport, building  ✓ Includes minimum requirements related 
materials and employee well-being.  to a wide range of topics, such as energy, 
water and well-being
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
72
Reducing energy consumption
 continued 103-1-3
SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT 9 921 BETTER | SAFER | MORE INTERCONNECTED
YOUR 
Transportation has a significant impact on 
the environment and climate. As such, our 
implementation of sustainable transport  COMPANY
initiatives is key to our overall approach  cars in SGS global fleet
to tackling climate change. BIKE
82%
OUR PROGRESS AND PERFORMANCE
To minimize CO emissions, we have put 
2
in place a Vehicle Emissions Policy that 
promotes the use of low-emission cars in 
of fleet cars meet our 
our fleets. Having committed to reducing 
Vehicle Emissions Policy*
our vehicle fleet CO emissions every year 
2
from 2016 until 2020, we have begun to 
source more environmentally friendly cars,  289 
GWh
along with implementing other initiatives 
(see case study opposite). 
Given the significant changes that the 
vehicle fuels
car market and regulations are currently 
CASE STUDY: PROMOTING BETTER, SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY
undergoing, we have extended our current 
policy to 2021, while we work on a new  With more than 89 000 employees,  To support the use of electric and 
policy that will cover our operations from  sustainable mobility – whether for  hybrid vehicles, we have installed 
2022 onwards. This sustainable and healthy  professional journeys, commuting  charging points in several SGS 
or personal travel – is an important  offices around the world, including 
form of transportation is  topic in terms of SGS’ commitment  Madrid (Spain), Fairfield (US), 
to promoting environmentally- Arcueil (France), and Spijkenisse 
especially attractive for 
“ Arval is pleased to have been  friendly behaviors and reducing  (Netherlands). 
able to support SGS in starting  employees, thanks to the  environmental impacts.  In Germany, SGS employees enjoy 
In a pilot project by the SGS Global  a subsidized bike leasing program, 
utilization of tax advantages 
the transition to a more  Procurement and Corporate  costing just €15 per month. As well 
and insurance benefits. Sustainability teams, six employees  as encouraging more employees 
sustainable fleet by deploying  in the UK, Spain and France affiliates  to cycle instead of using a car, this 
were loaned electric vehicles, and  initiative is having several other 
an end to end assessment and 
asked for their feedback after a few  positive effects, including raising 
recommendation process with  weeks. As well as the expected  sustainability and environmental 
environmental benefits, they  awareness; health management, 
them in key volume markets.”  reported an excellent user  resulting in enhanced fitness of 
experience, lower costs and even  employees and reduced sickness; 
  Mike Greatrex increased access to restricted areas.  and increased employee retention. 
  Arval International Business Development Manager One challenge identified related to 
battery range; it became clear that, 
depending on the type of use and 
travel distance, a hybrid vehicle 
*  W  e expect to achieve 100% in coming  would be preferable. 
years as we complete the full renovation  
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report of our fleet
73
Renewable energy
103-1-3
We are introducing the use 
USING RENEWABLE ENERGY
of renewable energy into our 
INVESTMENT IN RENEWABLE 
operations wherever possible. 
ENERGY INITIATIVES TO REDUCE 
As a signatory to the RE100  OUR 2019 CO EMISSIONS1
2
initiative, we have pledged to 
AMERICAS
source 100% of our energy 
requirements from renewable  95 
GWh
sources, either through onsite 
energy generation or procurement 
of renewable energy.  purchased renewable energy
OUR PROGRESS AND PERFORMANCE PACIFIC
We have numerous sites around the world, 
and renewables are unavailable in certain  197 
GWh
geographies. Using 100% renewable energy 
at SGS is therefore a complex challenge. 
Having reached the point where 95% of the 
electricity we use is from renewable sources,  purchased renewable energy
we have now extended to 2025 our RE100 
commitment to source 100% of our energy 
EUROPE, AFRICA & MIDDLE EAST
from renewables, in order to work towards 
closing the gap.
115 
GWh
In 2020, we invested in 407 GWh of renewable 
energy mechanisms. Where it is not possible 
to obtain or use such mechanisms, we are 
exploring the possibility of installing our own  purchased renewable energy
plants or signing a Power Purchase Agreement.
1.  Includes only energy allowance certificates 
purchased centrally
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
74
Carbon offsetting
103-1-3
While we are working to reduce CO  emissions  BETTER | SAFER | MORE INTERCONNECTED BETTER | SAFER | MORE INTERCONNECTED
2
from our operations as much as possible, we 
compensate for any residual emissions1 through 
our carbon offsetting strategy. 
This enables us to bridge the gap between our current emission 
levels and the more sustainable future which we are working hard 
to achieve, and to assign a clear cost to the carbon we generate – 
our internal cost of carbon. Each SGS affiliate takes responsibility 
for their CO  emissions and the cost of off-setting them. 
2
OUR CARBON OFFSETTING PROJECTS
We invest in credible and verified carbon off-setting projects  
that directly benefit communities where we have an impact.
PROJECT COUNTRY CERTIFICATION SCHEME TCO2
Small Hydro Kargilik Turkey VCS 33 949
CASE STUDY: ENSURING A BETTER AND MORE DIVERSE  CASE STUDY: OFFSETTING CARBON EMISSIONS IN BRAZIL
ENERGY SUPPLY IN TURKEY
Thermal Oxidation  China CER 29 728 In 2020, we purchased Verified  The project has also provided 
In 2020 we purchased Verified  –  Cover the peak demands with  Carbon Units (VCUs), avoiding   households with one-on-one 
Small Hydro Kalealti Turkey VCS 23 000 Carbon Units (VCUs) avoiding  a stable and locally generated  3 000 metric tons of CO2 equivalent  courses about agroforestry systems, 
23,000 metric tons of CO2 through  electricity (CO2e), from the Ribeirinhos  energy efficient cooking stoves, 
Nansha Hydro   the Kalealti Hydropower Plant project  –  Reduce the electricity imports  Project, in Brazil’s Pará region.  and Capuacu, Pitaya and other fruit 
Power Project in   in Turkey. The Project is a run-of-river  of Turkey, the dependency on  Riverine populations living in this  production.
Yunnan Province China CER 15 152 hydropower project located in the  fossil fuels and increased energy  region do not have property title.  Avoiding deforestation and providing 
Ceyhan basin, Osmaniye province of  security, lowering supply risks  This leaves land grabbers free to  energy efficient cooking stoves to 
Small Hydro Keban Turkey VCS 15 123 Ttshuuerpk pSelayyv.  crIulte nua tnRil,ii zvreeesnr  etthow ega webnlaeet erearlet hece taranidcd ito yf   –  aRnedd uimcep rgorveienngh poruicsee  sgtaasb ility edtone tfceolirrm eilsalettaegt aicollhnya ,a nwngdhe i.pc Tlhah nce o ilRnletibrgiebailur itnehso s  t4lihf0ee tm icmoillemio. mnT hutCen Oiptir2eoesj  edhcuatrs ian plgigr etnhvsee w nptiretohdj e oocuvtre  r 
Ribeirinhos Forest Brazil VCS 3 000 to the grid.  emissions and air pollutants  Project has provided certificates to  commitment to support low carbon 
by displacing electricity from 
The purpose of the Project Activity  fossil fuel based power plants over 127 households in the region,  economies and empower local 
Kyoga Cookstoves Uganda Gold Standard 3 000 is to generate power in an efficient,  giving them land tenure security  communities.
clean, reliable and sustainable way  –  Support local communities by  and protecting the area from 
TOTAL 122 952 with utmost respect on social and  creating new jobs in the region  illegal logging and poaching. 
during both construction and 
environmental reflections and to 
operation phases and encouraging 
reduce emissions by partially 
investment in the region
substituting the electricity supply 
of fossil fuel fired power plants  –  Remediate degraded catchments 
in Turkey. As a result, this project  area of the project to control 
will contribute positively towards  the soil erosion, resulting in 
1.  Market-based emissions. Excludes district heating and refrigerant gases emissions   sustainable development in Turkey  regeneration of natural forests 
due to unavailability of data. Scope 3 emissions only include Category 3: business travel in many different ways, as it will: and other ecosystems
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
75
Climate change risks and opportunities
102-15
201-2
Climate change presents us with  In addition, we identify climate related 
opportunities which, once analyzed by  TRANSITIONAL RISKS & OPPORTUNITIES PHYSICAL RISKS & OPPORTUNITIES
opportunities to innovate services 
our relevant business lines, we turn into 
for our customers. It may also  appropriate strategies.  TYPE: REGULATORY, POLICY   TYPE: TECHNOLOGY, REPUTATION  TYPE: ACUTE
AND LEGAL AND MARKET
present various types and degrees 
Strategies related to both our risks and 
of local, regulatory, physical and  opportunities are defined as either short-term  RISK RISK RISK
– immediately actioned and completed in the  Increasing taxes on fuel,  Legislation mandating the greater  Increased severity of extreme 
socioeconomic risks. Mitigating  next two years, medium-term – taking two to  energy and carbon use of renewable energy weather events affecting our 
facilities
and managing such risks, as well  five years to implement, and long-term – in  TIMESCALE: CURRENT TIMESCALE: MEDIUM-TERM
TIMESCALE: CURRENT
effect for over five years before completion.  IMPACT IMPACT
as identifying potential business  Overhead spend (e.g. fuel and  Legal issues based on non- IMPACT
opportunities, is fundamental  The most tangible risks and opportunities  electricity costs, carbon tax)  compliance or loss of revenues due  Business discontinuity and 
for our organization are: increases as a result of global  to increased fuel sourcing costs revenue loss, while increasing 
to SGS to enable us to maximize  vehicle and non-transport  MITIGATION in insurance premiums in 
fuel pricing high-risk areas
our value to society. TRANSITIONAL RISKS MITIGATION Penuercrghay scee ortfi fiacnantueasl  ereqnueivwalaebnlet  to  MITIGATION 
These relate to the extensive policy, legal,  Create policies, programs and  the majority of SGS’ electricity  Development of Business 
In 2020, we continued to adopt the Task Force  technology and market changes required to  campaigns to reduce energy usage  consumption, along with  Continuity guidelines across  
and carbon emissions, encourage  country-specific strategies the Group
on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)  transition to a low-carbon and climate-resilient  renewable energy generation and 
recommendations. This market-driven initiative  future. These potentially have the most impact  purchase, and change employee 
aims to improve and increase reporting of  on our business. behaviors  RISK RISK
Less use of fossil fuels due  Increased severity of extreme 
climate related financial information, around  to economy decarbonization weather events affecting our 
four key elements: Governance, Strategy,  PHYSICAL RISKS OPPORTUNITY TIMESCALE: LONG-TERM employees
Risk Management, and Metrics and Targets.   These are risks arising from the tangible effects  Dpreovdeuloctpsm aenndt  soefr lvoiwceesr  aecmcoisrsdiionngs   IMPACT TIMESCALE: CURRENT
See our Reporting Standards Appendix for  of climate change on our operations, workforce,  to emerging regulation Oil and Gas business line revenue  IMPACT
our TCFD Index.  markets, infrastructure, raw materials and  TIMESCALE: CURRENT affected Workforce health, safety and 
assets. For example the increased incidence  IMPACT MITIGATION  absenteeism etc. affected
To support climate change risk and opportunity  of extreme weather, including storms and  Increase revenue through  Portfolio of services diversification:  MITIGATION 
management, and following the recommendations  precipitation. Physical risks may have direct or  demand for lower emissions  to provide tailored solutions to the  Development of Business 
from the TCFD, in 2020 we started conducting  indirect operational, strategic, financial and social  products and services oil and gas sector, buffering any  Continuity guidelines across  
potential industry deceleration the Group
a scenario analysis. Through this analysis, while  implications. We do not anticipate that they will  MITIGATION
wwee  arerev ieewng raegginugla twoirtyh,  mouarr bkeuts ianneds sp hliynseisc,a wl fhuitlusrte   impact our business as much as transitional risks. Ptaocr ocGvoriuedneetn imnhgoo uraesn eds e Gvreavrsici fiEecsma rtieisoslaniot,e nds   OPPORTUNITY T– YNPoEn: eC HidReOnNtiIfiCe  d as critical
trends associated with climate change. We work  OPPORTUNITIES Product Carbon Footprint and  Development of lower emissions 
to understand the implications of climate change  Leveraging our capabilities and expertise, we  E(Enneerrggyy E Afufidciietsn cayn ds etervsitcinegs   ptor osdhuifctt isn  acnodn ssuemrveicre psr eacfecroerndcinegs 
on our business and improve our strategic  develop new products and services that help  of electric batteries TIMESCALE: SHORT-TERM
thinking, especially in relation to our services  our customers to respond effectively to their  IMPACT
but also in which we operate. transitional and physical risks. By increasing  Increase revenue through demand for 
efficiencies in our own business, particularly  lower emissions products and services
regarding energy, water and waste, we deliver  MITIGATION 
value to society, while ourselves benefiting  Set up competence centers to create  IMPACT LEVEL
expertise and replicate solutions
from cost savings.
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report  Low   Medium   High
76
Responsible use of natural resources
103-1-3
303-1
303-2
The solutions we implement today  WASTE MANAGEMENT
The relatively little waste we produce tends to 
for water resource protection and 
be in the form of chemicals, test samples, paper, 
waste management will benefit  plastic and organic waste from our offices and 
the long-term health and well- laboratories. We are continuing to work to reduce 
waste and reuse resources. For example, we 
being of our employees and the 
exchange surplus laboratory equipment across 
communities where we operate,  our network through the EquipNet platform, and 
we donate clean waste samples for charitable 
as well as adding value to society 
purposes, such as the Goonj project in India 
more widely. which turns waste cloth into sanitary products. 
The amount of waste produced by our sites is 
WATER MANAGEMENT mostly determined by the industry or industries 
Our global water consumption is relatively low  they served. Our mineral and construction 
compared with other industries. Our primary  businesses, for example, produce a relatively 
use is in our laboratories, although we also use  high volume of waste compared to other 
it for drinking, sanitation and food preparation. business lines. Where our services require 
us to handle hazardous waste, this needs to 
We have in place various initiatives that 
be disposed of responsibly, without risk to our 
support our goal of monitoring and minimizing 
people, the environment or local communities. 
the amount of water we consume across our 
operations. For example, through our Energy  In 2020, we improved our reporting mechanisms 
Efficiency in Buildings program, we assess  and for the first time we will be categorizing the 
water consumption and installations and  breakdown of our waste into building waste and 
make site-specific recommendations for water  other waste. 
efficiency improvements. In Cape Town, we have 
We continue to encourage our people to 
identified a risk that our agricultural laboratories 
minimize their waste through our Add Value 
may be impacted by the droughts that are 
with Lëss initiative, for example by minimizing 
increasingly impacting the city. We are therefore 
printing and optimizing use of consumables. 
implementing plans to manage water and reduce 
We also drew on expertise from external waste 
the risk of our services being disrupted, and will 
management companies to help us reuse and 
put in place an internal audit process to ensure 
recycle materials in our facilities.
that mitigations have been actioned. 
Our Add Value with Lëss initiative also 
encourages employees to use water carefully.
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
77
HOW IS SGS’ COMMUNITY 
INVOLVEMENT CONTRIBUTING 
TO A BETTER, SAFER AND MORE 
INTERCONNECTED WORLD?
COMMUNITY “ Operating in more than 140 countries 
around the world, often in remote 
areas, we have an extensive geographical 
spread. Our emphasis on supporting 
our local communities wherever we 
are is another way we are adding 
value all over the world.”
  Blanca Hurtado
  Corporate Sustainability Communications Manager
Part of our local communities  78
Supporting communities through empowerment  80
Supporting communities through environmental protection   81
Supporting communities through education  82
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
78
Part of our local communities
103-1-3
413-2
As part of the communities in which we operate, our goal  INVESTMENT IN COMMUNITY
(thousand CHF)
is to create a positive, measurable and lasting local impact. 
As well as welcoming local talent and supporting local  1 243
suppliers, we add value to communities through projects 
that contribute to the United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs). 2020 | 1 243
2019 | 1 331
Adding value to society through our community  It is important to us to measure the impact our  2018 | 1 384
involvement is an essential component of our  programs have on our communities. As part of  2014 | 738
business strategy. We commit to investing  our sustainability reporting process, we conduct 
in the communities where we operate under  a biannual community survey, aligned with the 
three pillars: empowerment, education and  London Benchmarking Group criteria, across  COMMUNITY HOURS
environmental sustainability. These seek to  our network. Our review of project outcomes  (number)
address global priorities related to poverty,  for 2020 is summarized below. 
equal opportunities, health, education, climate  9 151
Our Group Community Policy and 
change and environmental degradation.
Guidelines determine the selection and 
implementation of our community programs. 
OUR APPROACH
Responsibility for implementing our Community 
In delivering our community programs across  2020 | 9 151
Policy ultimately rests with our Chief Executive 
our three pillars, we take a multi-pronged 
Officer. Our Sustainability Steering Committee  2019 | 17 197
approach. We invest financially in community 
oversees the implementation of our social 
projects, either through charitable contributions,  2018 | 18 544
and environmental programs. 
long-term investments or pursuing philanthropic 
2014 | 13 021
sponsorship opportunities. These projects  Managing Directors are responsible for 
are supported through volunteering, cash  implementing the Community Policy on the 
investment or in-kind donations like pro- ground in their communities, ensuring that  COMMUNITY PROJECTS
bono work. We deliver community projects  appropriate resources are allocated to manage  (number)
in partnership with customers, as well as  community investment by all SGS affiliates, 
suppliers. We participate in both short-  which collaborate with local organizations  323
and long-term initiatives, which are either  and lead most of the initiatives.
proactively identified or in response to 
specific requests for assistance.
2020 | 323
2019 | 441
2018 | 462
2014 | 217
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
79
Part of our local communities
 continued 103-1-3
The community programs,  BETTER | SAFER | MORE INTERCONNECTED
INITIATIVES SGS DELIVERS TO SUPPORT LOCAL COMMUNITIES AND THE PLANET
campaigns and initiatives that we 
SGS supports the communities where we operate through a variety of short- and 
put in place, manage and facilitate 
long-term initiatives, both proactively identified and in response to specific requests.
have a meaningful impact on 
CHARITABLE GIFTS   COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS  PHILANTHROPIC SPONSORSHIP 
our local communities. They also 
(31.6%) (62.7%) (5.7%)
reflect our values as a company  CHF 393 082 CHF 779 873 CHF 70 250
and benefit our employees.
we make contributions to   we proactively support community  we support business-related 
By participating in our community projects,  the community and respond   projects that address social or  activities that deliver community 
employees benefit from opportunities for  to appeals for help from   environmental issues relevant   benefits and support the success 
engagement, upskilling, networking and  charities and employees. to SGS and to the communities   of the SGS business and brand.
in which we operate.
increased collaboration. Our community  CASE STUDY: SGS ACADEMY FOR THE COMMUNITY
programs promote employee engagement, 
In many of our communities, we  In Taiwan, 57 people completed 
instilling pride in our employees across the 
see a vicious cycle whereby people  training through a project delivering 
world, which in turn strengthens employee  CONTRIBUTIONS SGS MAKES TO COMMUNITY PROJECTS cannot afford an education, so they  five different courses, tailored to the 
motivation and retention. remain unqualified and therefore  needs and capabilities of each specific 
SGS contributes to local community projects by donating cash, time and 
cannot find well-paid employment. target group. The courses included:
The impacts of Covid-19 made it more  expertise both in terms of our management and asset-based resources.
Through the SGS Academy for the  –  eCommerce, internet and 
important than ever for us to continue  IN-KIND CONTRIBUTIONS (10%) TIME CONTRIBUTIONS (7.9%) Community, we provide high-quality  marketing, for physically 
delivering our community support programs. technical training free of charge, to  disabled people
CHF 124 497 CHF 97 609 people earning less than the average  –  Environmental rehabilitation 
While the number of volunteering hours  living wage in the communities in  and eco-tour guiding, for 
we were able to achieve was reduced due  which we operate. Each project is  unemployed people
to lockdowns, we did see an increase in cash  we commit our own corporate   we donate SGS employees’ paid working   managed by the local SGS affiliate.
–  Ecological agriculture, for 
donations from affiliates, which enabled us  resources to community activities,   time to community organizations or activities,  The aim of this initiative is to support  low income organic farmers
to maintain our community investment target. ianncdlu oduinr gs eITr,v liacbeos r(aptroor-yb eoqnuoi)p. ment   u(Osuuar lelym thprlooyuegehs e amlspol ooyfeteen v coolunntrtiebeurtien gti.m e   eincdoivniodmuaicls ’d eemveplolopymabeinlitt yb ayn edn hancing  –  Elderly care and community service, 
outside of working hours to these activities.   improving their qualifications, so  for people struggling financially
These hours are not attributed to SGS.) they can seek better paid positions.  –  Handicraft skills and micro-finance 
In deciding what courses to offer,  management, for people from 
CASH CONTRIBUTIONS (78.7%)1 MANAGEMENT CONTRIBUTIONS (3.4%) we take into consideration the local  disadvantaged backgrounds
employment market for each country. 
CHF 978 537 CHF 42 560 Similar projects in India and 
In 2020, the SGS Academy for the  Chile had to be put on hold due to 
Community continued and completed  Covid-19 restrictions, but they will 
projects started in 2019. In South  be resumed as soon as possible.
we pay monetary amounts to support  in the process of managing our community  Africa, 23 participants completed 
communities, organizations and projects. We  activities, we also incur indirect costs, such  skills-based training related to food 
usually contribute through direct donations to  as expenses arising from communication  safety – a skill set identified by the 
charitable organizations, social sponsorship of  and travel, and the wages of the employees   Department of Education in South 
cultural events or institutions, or by covering  who organize the community activities. Africa as scarce in the industry. 
employee expenses for those involved.
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report 1. Cash contributions do not include CHF 58,349 donated by SGS employees
80
Supporting communities  
These programs support 
in particular:
through empowerment 
SDG 1 NO  
POVERTY
We provide support to our local  213 BETTER | SAFER | MORE INTERCONNECTED BETTER | SAFER | MORE INTERCONNECTED
communities across the world 
through programs focused 
on empowerment, environmental  empowerment projects in 2020
sustainability and education.
52
%
EMPOWERMENT
Through our programs, we seek to promote 
economic development, health, gender  of total community investment1
equality and alleviation from poverty and hunger. 
By providing access to healthcare, counseling, 
microcredit and enterprise schemes, we support 
physical, emotional, intellectual and economic 
empowerment. These programs support in 
particular SDG 1, No Poverty. 
CASE STUDY: HELPING COMMUNITIES   CASE STUDY: SUPPORTING COMMUNITIES 
IN THE PHILIPPINES IN SOUTH AFRICA THROUGH THE PANDEMIC
Following the eruption of the Taal Volcano in  SGS provided much-needed practical support in 
January 2020, SGS Philippines provided essential  South Africa during the pandemic. We donated 
relief aid, helping to make life better for affected  essential baby items to the Heartlands Baby Sanctuary, 
local communities. This included distributing food and  along with 40 food hampers that were distributed 
hygiene kits at an elementary school; feeding 1 000  to 150 people by grass-roots organization, Happy 
people, including social workers and government  Children Social Community Development. 
personnel; and providing drinking water to 250 families 
in the evacuation center. Our staff also volunteered,  “ Thank you so very, very, very much.  
repacking supplies of food for distribution.  We are so delighted and couldn’t thank 
you enough for your support.” 
SGS further supported communities in Montalban, 
Rizal, following the devastating typhoon Ulysses that 
 Heartlands Baby Sanctuary
took place at the end of the year. We donated 200,000 
 South Africa
pesos through the Kaya Natin! movement, benefiting 
300 families. In addition, our employees raised 56,400 
pesos to fund further relief packages, including hygiene 
kits, food, drinking water and cleaning materials.
1.  Including cash, time and 
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report management contributions
81
Supporting communities  
These programs support in particular:
through environmental protection SDG13 CLIMATE   SDG15 LIFE ON  
ACTION LAND
ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY 33 BETTER | SAFER | MORE INTERCONNECTED BETTER | SAFER | MORE INTERCONNECTED
We have a range of environmental initiatives, 
including the protection of endangered species, 
restoring natural habitats and managing waste. 
These initiatives support in particular SDG 13,  Environmental sustainability  
Climate Action and SDG 15, Life on Land. projects in 2020
6
%
of total community investment1
CASE STUDY: TRANSFORMING PLASTIC 
WASTE INTO FUEL 
With plastic pollution increasing, SGS France 
provides pro bono support for an innovative solution. 
EARTHWAKE is a not-for-profit that converts plastic 
waste into diesel. SGS experts, based in Marseille, 
CASE STUDY: A FOCUS ON RECYCLING IN PERÚ
analyze and check the fuel produced by EARTHWAKE, 
to ensure it is stable and of good enough quality for 
Recycling has been at the center  Our recycling initiatives were run 
use. The fuel is then used in waste collection trucks. 
of our sustainability efforts at  in collaboration with a third party, 
In 2020, EARTHWAKE won the EDF Pulse Start-Up  SGS in Perú over the past year.  which makes a financial contribution 
Audience Award for its pioneering work supporting  Despite the global pandemic,  for every ton recycled. These 
both communities and the environment. we have run several recycling  donations go towards improving the 
initiatives in 2020. health and education of vulnerable 
children. For instance, our EEEW 
For example, we succeeded in 
recycling is benefiting ANIQUEM 
recycling 10 tons of paper, avoiding 
(the Association of Burned Children), 
nearly 20 tons of CO2 being emitted  and will cover the cost of therapy 
into the atmosphere. We recycled 
for nine children in 2021.
8.5 tons of glass and 1.25 tons of 
electrical and electronic equipment 
waste (EEEW).
1.  Including cash, time and 
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report management contributions
82
Supporting communities 
These programs support 
in particular:
through education
SDG 4 QUALITY  
EDUCATION
EDUCATION BETTER | SAFER | MORE INTERCONNECTED
Through our education programs, we 
improve access to all levels of schooling, 
and provide employment training schemes 
and skills workshops. These projects 
support SDG 4, Quality Education.
77
education projects in 2020
42
%
CASE STUDY: HELPING POLISH ORPHANS  CASE STUDY: SPONSORING SCHOOLS’  CASE STUDY: HELPING TO EDUCATE SMALL-
of total community investment1
KEEP UP WITH THEIR SCHOOLWORK INFRASTRUCTURE AND SKILLS DEVELOPMENT  SCALE RURAL FARMERS IN RURAL MEXICO
IN INDIA
Learning remotely through the pandemic was  A donation by SGS to Mexican non-profit 
challenging, even for children who have stable  Over 1 000 underprivileged students at  organization, Educampo, is helping low-income 
parental support. For children in orphanages,  four Government schools in Tamil Nadu benefit  rural producers sustainably increase their 
remote learning was even more difficult. So our  from direct support by SGS India. Funds have  productivity, enhancing livelihoods. In 2020, 
employees volunteered with children and youth  been used to ensure better infrastructure and  Educampo initiatives directly benefited 852 
at the Katowice orphanage in Poland, providing  sanitation facilities, as well as paying computer  people, and indirectly benefited a further 2 556. 
group and individual tutoring online, to help  and English teachers. We have also purchased  Our donation is supporting Educampo’s Grains 
them do better at school. For some children,  computers, printers and other equipment  program, which provides better organizational 
the supportive contact with our employees was  for the schools. We now plan to ‘adopt’  support, finance, access to technology and 
as important as the help with the schoolwork. a further nine schools. commercial management to small producers 
of basic grains – specifically those with 1-20 
“ Your help was very valuable. The amount 
hectare farms. The results are outstanding, 
of material to be processed was enormous! 
with participants earning up to 2.4 times 
Thank you very much.”
more per hectare.
 Orphanage employee
 Poland
1.  Including cash, time and 
management contributions
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
83
GOING FORWARD, HOW WILL 
SGS ENHANCE ITS CULTURE 
OF SUSTAINABILITY?
WHAT PLANS DOES SGS HAVE 
FOR SUSTAINABILITY IN 2021?
LOOKING  “  Creating a culture of sustainability requires 
consistency, logic and forward planning. 
Our new sustainability strategy, which we 
will launch in 2021, has all these elements, 
giving us a new orientation with a purpose-
FORWARD
driven leadership.” 
  Frankie Ng
  Chief Executive Officer
Looking forward  84
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
84
Looking forward
In the months to come we will announce our 
OUR PEOPLE ENVIRONMENT
2030 Sustainability Strategy, which we developed 
during 2020. The strategy will guide our  – Going forward, we have set a target for 2023 to certify all  – Pursue our energy efficiency strategy for transitioning from 
programs and initiatives in the coming years,  sites with more than 200 full-time employees to the ISO  country management and short-term efficiency projects, 
45001:2018 Occupational Health and Safety Management  to a multi-site building management system, by 2025. 
enabling us to add more value to society and 
System and ISO 14001:2015 Environmental Management  – Set even more ambitious targets as we continue our work 
be better prepared to face the challenges of  System. These certifications will be for around 82 sites, will  on a new sustainable transport strategy. This will include 
the future. cover approximately 51,000 employees, and will demonstrate  procurement of more sustainable types of car and using 
our strong Operational Integrity (HSE Management System)  innovative in-car devices to collect data about driver behavior.
which we have implemented all around the globe.
– Fully adopt the TCFD recommendations into our risk 
– Roll out SmartRecruiters to a further 15 countries, increase  management framework.
recruitment automation to enhance candidate experience 
– Invest more in renewable energy and reduce our investment 
and increase both hiring velocity and quality, and refine 
in carbon offsetting projects.
our onboarding process to include virtual site tours and 
CREATING VALUE FOR OUR CUSTOMERS management videos. – Continue to work on future programs to embed circular 
economy into our operations as well as reduce use of plastics.
– Enhance the employee experience by increasingly 
– Further develop SGS Online to service a broader  
incorporating digitalization into our HR processes.
customer audience.
– Put in place initiatives that raise awareness around  
– Digitalize new services.
diversity, and proactively enhance our own diversity  
– Continuously improve our ‘Next Normal’ solutions program. and inclusion practices.
– Continue to give our employees the resources to develop  
and grow.
PROFESSIONAL EXCELLENCE – Ensure our HR community are equipped to access and use  COMMUNITY
our employee engagement tool autonomously and ensure  
– Work on furthering Human Rights compliance in our operations,  we address employee needs. – Take forward our learnings from our experiences of Covid-19.
taking a more proactive approach to risk management. – Publish a new strategy which will incorporate a  – Identify suitable online community volunteering opportunities.
– Strengthen our approach to information security and data  comprehensive focus on talent experience, from talent  – Develop our Community Strategy further and increase 
protection in light of our analysis of how our affiliates,  attraction and retention, through talent development, to  our community investment.
functions and businesses use and share information. employee rewards and incentives, to enable our engaged 
– Implement our three-year Procurement and Supply Chain  workforce to contribute to our business success and add 
Strategy (2021 to 2023). value to society.
– Develop a digital innovation strategy to support our use of 
digital innovation in automating and enhancing efficiency in 
our existing operations.
– Conduct a review of our procedure for monitoring, verifying 
and approving certain high-risk suppliers and business 
partners, and develop it to include more interviews, 
regulations and internal audits.
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
85
HOW DO WE CONTRIBUTE TO 
A BETTER, SAFER AND MORE 
INTERCONNECTED WORLD?
ABOUT THIS  “ The first step to creating change is 
awareness. By increasing transparency 
and consistently reporting on our 
sustainability performance, we obtain 
the information needed to identify where 
REPORT
change can be made, and continually 
enhance our value to society.”
  Beatriz Cebrián López
  Global Sustainability Manager
Our reporting approach  86
Glossary of material topics  87
Databank  88
Independent assurance statement from our auditors  93
Get in touch  95
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
86
Our reporting approach 
102-11 102-51
102-46 102-52
102-48 102-54
102-49 102-55
102-50
We provide our stakeholders with timely and accurate  SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
In order to ensure transparent reporting, 
updates on our sustainability activities and performance. 
we report on our sustainability performance 
Our goal is to produce a report that is fair, transparent and  indicators in a consistent and accurate way. 
balanced, and that meets the needs of our stakeholders.  In preparing the majority of our sustainability 
performance indicators, we follow the GRI 
Standards. See Sustainability Reporting 
Standards Index. Where we use any bespoke 
indicator that has not been prepared in 
accordance with the GRI Standards, we describe 
SCOPE AND BOUNDARIES Where such a data variation is less than 5%,  the relevant methodology in our Basis of 
This Sustainability Report covers all SGS  we generally consider it to be immaterial;  Reporting document.
Group regions and business lines for the period  where a change is deemed significant, this 
For indicators related to carbon emissions, 
1 January to 31 December 2020. A full list of  is noted the first time the data appears in 
we follow the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG 
our affiliates can be found on pages 193 to 195  this report.
Protocol) Corporate Accounting and Reporting 
of our 2020 Integrated Annual Report. 
Taking a precautionary approach to sustainability,  Standard (taking a financial control approach), 
Having identified and prioritized our most  we seek to prevent even those environmental  and we account for all Kyoto gases (CO , 
2
significant impacts – both to our business  threats that are not yet scientifically certain  CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6 and NF3). 
and to stakeholders across our value chain  to occur. 
– in this Sustainability Report we include  ASSURANCE
performance data for our direct operations,  EXTERNAL STANDARDS Since 2011, an important part of our approach 
along with information on how we are managing  We have published a Sustainability Report  has been to obtain independent external 
issues considered to be the most material.  annually for the past 11 years. Since 2015,  assurance of our sustainability performance and 
(See page 15)  we have also incorporated sustainability  reporting. In 2018, we appointed Deloitte SA to 
content into our Integrated Annual Report, in  undertake this task. Their work and conclusions 
We also disclose our performance over the past 
line with the Integrated Reporting Framework.  for the reporting period to 31 December 2020 
five-year period, some of which will have been 
can be found in the Assurance Statement. 
included in one or more earlier reports. There are  This report has been prepared in accordance  
(See pages 93 and 94)
cases where, due to enhanced data collection  with the comprehensive option of the GRI 
and availability of information, we have been  Standards, the Sustainability Accounting 
able to improve our historical data.  Standard (‘Standard’) for the Professional 
& Commercial Services Industry (SASB) 
and follows the guidelines for the AA1000 
AccountAbility Principles Standard. 
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
87
Glossary of material topics
102-56
The SGS Business Materiality  ADAPTION AND MITIGATION TO CLIMATE CHANGE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING RISK MANAGEMENT AND BUSINESS CONTINUITY
Taking into account how climate change impacts our  Respecting employees’ freedoms to associate and  Identifying and managing risks that could impact on 
Matrix shows the topics that are  operations (reducing the use of fossil fuels and increasing  to bargain collectively regarding workplace conditions. the Company, as well as ensuring the resilience of 
energy efficiency) and in the design of our business  the Company and its business models to economic, 
most material to the SGS Group 
strategy (adapting our business to the physical and  GOOD PRACTICE IN CORPORATE GOVERNANCE environmental, social, political and other disruptions. 
(see page 15). Opposite provides  transitional impacts of climate change, and the  Applying market best practices, such as board  The management of crisis, such as the Covid-19 
associated disruption to socioeconomic systems). accountability, independence and skills of the members  pandemic, is included here.
a description of each topic: of the Board, to the corporate governance rules 
CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT of our organization. SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT AND SUPPLY CHAIN
Implementing effective processes for interacting  Sourcing products and services responsibly, and promoting 
with customers, including channels of communication,  HEALTH & SAFETY environmental and social standards in the supply chain.
upholding quality of service and responding to  Preventing harm and promoting physical health 
customer needs and complaints. for employees and contractors. TALENT ATTRACTION AND RETENTION
Ensuring the Company is a desirable place to work, 
CYBERSECURITY INNOVATION and keeping employee turnover within acceptable levels. 
Having systems in place to defend computers, servers,  Continuously innovating to increase efficiency,  This also includes having systems in place to guarantee 
mobile devices, electronic systems, networks and  adaptability and service value. fair compensation.
data from malicious attacks.
LOCAL COMMUNITY INVESTMENT SUPPORT TAX AND PAYMENT TO GOVERNMENTS
DATA PRIVACY AND PROTECTION Actively contributing to local development through  Creating wealth for society by paying taxes in a timely 
Managing data from our employees, customers and other  local sourcing or hiring, philanthropic investment,  manner, and avoiding tax avoidance schemes.
individuals, according to the relevant regulations in force. and volunteering activities.
TRAINING & DEVELOPMENT
DIVERSE & INCLUSIVE WORKFORCE PREVENTING AIR POLLUTION Providing opportunities for employees to upgrade their 
Valuing diversity in the workforce and supporting  Managing emissions of ozone-depleting substances  skills, and conducting regular performance development 
equal opportunities, including tackling discrimination  and other air pollutants that can impact human health  reviews. This includes transition assistance programs to 
and unconscious bias.  and the environment. enhance employability, and the management of career 
endings due to retirement or termination.
DIVERSITY IN THE EXECUTIVE TEAM PROTECTING BIODIVERSITY
Taking steps to integrate all kinds of diversity, and having  Protecting vulnerable species and the variety of life  WASTE REDUCTION AND MANAGEMENT
specific targets linked to diversity in leadership positions. in natural ecosystems, including maintaining the key  Following the reduce-reuse-recycle waste management 
ecosystem services (such as clean air) that this  hierarchy and moving towards a circular economy.
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT AND CONSULTATION biodiversity supports.
Including the workforce in key decisions, and giving  WATER AND EFFLUENT MANAGEMENT
them sufficient notice of changes affecting them. RESPECTING HUMAN RIGHTS AND  Managing water as a shared resource, including minimizing 
ETHICAL LABOR PRACTICES pollution and reducing the withdrawal of freshwater by 
ETHICAL BEHAVIOR  Taking steps to understand where human rights  increasing water efficiency. 
Abiding by the rules of fair competition, where  issues may arise in the Company or its supply chain, 
all companies operate on a level playing field, and  and ensuring no use of child labor or forced labor,  WELL-BEING AND WORK-LIFE BALANCE
not tolerating any form of bribery or corruption  or other human rights violation. Promoting the health and well-being of our employees, 
in business dealings. through initiatives including employee benefits, work-life 
RESPONSIBLE MATERIALS USE balance, flexible work schemes and other fringe benefits, 
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION LINKED  Reducing the direct and embodied impacts of materials  beyond legal requirements.
TO SUSTAINABILITY GOALS  usage, including reducing the amount of materials we use 
Having specific sustainability targets (such as CO2  and making use of recycled or secondary reused materials.
emissions reductions, gender gap, etc.) linked 
to the compensation of the Board of Directors.
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
88
Databank
FINANCE 2014* 2018 2019 2020 2020 TARGET COMPLIANCE AND INTEGRITY 2014* 2018 2019 2020 2020 TARGET
FTE employees (# people) 84 246 97 464 92 661 91 698 Code of Integrity reports to helplines:   241 237 211 208
Total number of integrity issues reported through integrity helplines¹
Number of offices and laboratories (# of buildings) – +2 600 +2 600 +2 600
Code of Integrity investigations:   151 67 70 104
Estimated positive value to society (CHF million) – 6 176 6 358 6 579
Total number of valid reports investigated2
Revenue (CHF million) 5 360 6 512 6 600 5 604
Code of Integrity non-compliances:   42 28 36 17
Financial income (CHF million) – 18 286 76 Total number of breaches of the Code of Integrity identified through 
integrity helplines1
Salaries and wages (CHF million) – 3 442 3 357 2 797
Total number of employees signing the Code of Integrity 86 040 100 798 96 301 93 269
Subcontractors’ expenses (CHF million) – 387  386 352
Percentage of employees signing the Code of Integrity 100 100 100 100 100
Depreciation, amortization and impairment (CHF million) – 317 548 517
Approximate hours of training on the Code of Integrity 91 461 89 993 92 1504
Other operating expenses (CHF million) – 1 597 1 460 1 173
Total number of employees trained on the Code of Integrity 80 625 91 461 89 993 92 1504
Financial expenses (CHF million) – 58 79 66
Percentage of employees trained on the Code of Integrity 93.7 90.7 98.8 98.84
Dividends paid (CHF million) – 632 646 623
Percentage of governance body members signing  100 100 100 100
Income taxes (CHF million) – 218 315 237
the Code of Integrity
Other taxes (CHF million) – 36 34 33
Percentage of governance body members trained on  100 100 100 100
Total economic value generated (CHF million) – 6 724 6 886 5 680 the Code of Integrity
Total economic value distributed (CHF million) – 6 668 6 826 5 798 Analysis of risks related to corruption:   100 100 100 100
Percentage of operations analyzed for risks related to corruption
Economic value retained (CHF million) – 56 60 (118)
Analysis of risks related to corruption:   5 6 7 8
*  2014 baseline year of our ambition Total number of operations analyzed for risks related to corruption
Number and nature of confirmed incidents of corruption  4 2 2 0
identified through corporate helplines1
Number of confirmed incidents identified through corporate  12 7 6 3
helplines1 where employees were dismissed
Public legal cases regarding corruption brought against the  0 0 0 0
organization/employees
1. ‘ Helplines’ means channels used by employees and external parties to report suspected violations of the Code of Integrity and submitted online, 
by phone call, sent via fax, email or post
2. W  e are working on extending the scope of our reporting in order to include breaches occurring locally and pending cases which are still under 
review at the time of the reporting. We expect to report on these figures in the coming years
3. Since 2019, this figure represents the percentage of employees trained on the Code of Integrity, from eligible employees
4. 2020 annual integrity training was launched in December 2020. All eligible employees will have completed the training by March 2021
5. All operating companies included in the 2014 Annual Report (p.152-155)
6. All operating companies included in the 2018 Annual Report (p.186-189)
7. All operating companies included in the 2019 Annual Report (p.197-200)
8. All operating companies included in the 2020 Annual Report (p.193-196)
*  2014 baseline year of our ambition
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
89
Databank
 continued 407-1
408-1
409-1
HUMAN RIGHTS 2014* 2018 2019 2020 2020 TARGET PUBLIC POLICY 2014* 2018 2019 2020 2020 TARGET
Risks within operations: Operations identified as having a significant  0 0 0 0 Lobbying, interest representation or similar (in CHF) – 0 0
risk of incidences of child labor, forced or compulsory labor, or where  
Contributions to local, regional or national political campaigns/ – 0 0
the right to exercise freedom of association may be violated
organizations/candidates (in CHF)
Discrimination: Total number of proven incidents of discrimination,   0 0 0 0
Trade associations or tax-exempt groups (e.g. think tanks) (in CHF)3 – 860 617 646 252 523 622
and actions taken
Other contributions (e.g. spending related to ballot measures   – 0 0
Indigenous people’s rights: Total number of violations of the rights   0 0 0 0
or referendums) (in CHF)
of indigenous people, and actions taken
Total contributions and other spending (in CHF) – 860 617 646 252 523 622
Human rights grievances: Number of grievances identified through  0 0 0 0
helplines related to human rights¹ Contribution to industry associations (% of revenue) – Under  Under  Under 
0.02 0.01 0.01%
SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT AND SUPPLY CHAIN 2014* 2018 2019 2020 2020 TARGET
CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT 2014* 2018 2019 2020 2020 TARGET
Number of global suppliers (as a % of total suppliers) – 1 2 3
Customers satisfied with SGS service (as a % of total number  – 88 91 83
Spend of local suppliers (as a % of total spend) – 83 80 80
of customers)
Spend of global suppliers (as a % of total spend) – 17 20 20
Group’s revenue covered by Voice of the Customer surveys   – 42 89 48
Spend by SGS supra-region – Asia and Pacific (as a % of each region) – 31 32 35 (as a % of total revenue)
Spend by SGS supra-region – Europe, Africa and Middle East   – 47 47 48 Countries participating in Voice of the Customer survey (# of countries) – 69 67 15
(as a % of each region)
Responses in Voice of the Customer surveys (# of responses) – 9 500 9 628 7 990
Spend by SGS supra-region – Americas (as a % of each region) – 22 21 17
INFORMATION SECURITY AND DATA PRIVACY 2014* 2018 2019 2020 2020 TARGET
Spend by SGS category – Capex (as a % of each category) – 14 13 14
Spend by SGS category – External services(as a % of each category) – 23 23 23 Number of complaints received from outside parties and substantiated  – 0 0 0
by the organization
Spend by SGS category – Material and supplies (as a % of each category) – 19 18 19
Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of data customer policy – 0 0 0
Spend by SGS category – General repairs and maintenance   – 5 6 6
(as a % of each category) Number of complaints from regulatory bodies – 0 0 0
Spend by SGS category – Travel and vehicles (as a % of total spend) – 18 18 15 Completion rate of data protection and privacy eLearning   – 95 95 98.82
(as a % of people invited to the eLearning)
Spend by SGS category – Other OPEX (as a % of each category) – 21 22 23
Spend vs. revenue (as a % of one versus the other) – 32.5 33.0 33.6 1. ‘ Helplines’ means channels used by employees and external parties to report suspected violations of the Code of Integrity and submitted online, 
by phone call, sent via fax, email or post
SGS countries who have tier 1 suppliers (# of companies) – 30 30 40 2. 2 020 annual integrity training, which includes data protection and privacy e-learning, was launched in December 2020. All eligible employees 
will have completed the training by March 2021
Companies defined as supplier tier 1 (# of companies) – 59 988 67 214 65 447
3. A ssociation of Professional Social Compliance Auditors Inc: CHF 79 413.18; TIC Council: CHF 73 888.61; Economiesuisse: CHF 50 000 
Suppliers after country level review (# of companies) – 4 803 4 512 5 903 IMD International Institute for Management Development: CHF 50 000; STSA Swiss Trading & Shipping Association: CHF 25 000
*  2014 baseline year of our ambition
Suppliers with actions taken (# of companies) – 925 2 853 4 244
*  2014 baseline year of our ambition
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
90
Databank
 continued 102-8
404-1
404-3
TALENT MANAGEMENT AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES 2014* 2018 2019 2020 2020 TARGET TALENT MANAGEMENT AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES 2014* 2018 2019 2020 2020 TARGET
Natural turnover¹ (% of permanent employees) 12.8 14.6 13.6 10.1 <15.0 SGS management Board and Operations Council by age – Under 30  – 0 0 0
years old (# of people by ranges of age)
Total turnover (% of total permanent employees) – 23.3 22.6 18.1
SGS management Board and Operations Council by age – 30 to 50  – 6 7 8
Total turnover female (% of total employees) – 20.9 20.3 16.0
years old (# of people by ranges of age)
Total turnover male (% of total employees) – 24.6 23.9 19.3
SGS management Board and Operations Council by age – Over 50  – 26 24 19
Casual workers (each kind as a % of total employees) – 9 9 9 years old (# of people by ranges of age)
Permanent workers (each kind as a % of total employees) – 91 91 91 Sickness absence rate³ (% of days of sickness absence per total  1.48 1.54 1.55 1.58 <1.5
days worked)
Equal opportunity ratio (Female managers/female employees)/  0.84 0.84 0.89 0.90
(male managers/male employees)² Total absence rate (% of days of sickness absence plus days lost  1.54 1.56 1.57 1.60 <1.7
per incidents with lost time per total days worked)
New hires male and female (# of employees) – 23 720 22 824 18 546
Training ratio4 (% of total employment cost spent on training  2.52 3.38 3.24 2.51 1.00
New hires (female) (as a % of each category) – 34 34 37
(includes safety training hours))
New hires (male) (as a % of each category) – 66 66 63
Training hours per FTE4 (# of hours/FTE) 31.8 45.9 49.0 48.8
CEO-3 employees (# of CEO-3 employees) – 1 293 1 291 1,131
Total training hours4 (millions of hours) 2,7 4,4 4,6 4.3
CEO-3 by gender (female) – ‘Women in Leadership’   – 26.4 26.7 28.7 >30.0
Performance reviews5 (% of employees receiving regular  78 90 88 86 100
(% of people by gender)
performance review)
CEO-3 by gender (male) (% of people by gender) – 73.6 73.3 71.3
Collective bargaining6 (% of employees) 34 40 40 41
Manager employees (# of manager employees) 7 090 8 525 8 076 8 249
Employees invited to participate in SGS Catalyst (# of employees) – 6 926 19 273 32 262
Manager by gender (female) (% of people by gender) 30.0 29.7 32.6 33.1
Response rate in SGS Catalyst (as %) – 91 82 74
Manager by gender (male) (% of people by gender) 70.0 70.3 67.4 66.9
Engagement Index (as score out of 1007) – 68 71 70
Number of employees (# of employees) 86 040 100 820 96 301 93 269
Actively engaged employees (as %) – 68 66 65
Employees by gender (female) (% of people by gender) 32.5 33.5 35.1 35.5
1. E mployees that leave SGS each year of their own will. As of 2016, NTO is calculated based on permanent (fix-term and open-ended) contracts
Employees by gender (male) (% of people by gender) 67.5 66.5 64.9 64.5
2. E OR = (female managers/female employees) divided by (male managers/male employees). If EOR is 1, then female employees have as many 
SGS management Board and Operations Council by gender (female)   – 2 1 1 opportunities as male employees to reach a managing position
(# of people by gender) 3. D ays of sickness absence per total days worked
4. T raining and Hours spent cost per Total employment cost, including safety training hours (on a constant currency basis)
SGS management Board and Operations Council by gender (male)  – 30 30 26
5. E mployees receiving regular performance reviews. Methodology has been updated in 2018 to cover percentage of all eligible employees
(# of people by gender)
6.  Employees covered by collective consultation/representation processes
SGS management Board and Operations Council nationalities   – 15 16 14 7. I n 2016 and 2017, Engagement Index was calculated as a % of employees answering favorably to the relevant questions. In 2019 we changed 
(# of nationalities) our approach and starting measuring this as a score
*  2014 baseline year of our ambition
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
91
Databank
 continued 302-1 305-2
302-2 305-3
302-3 305-4
302-4 305-3
305-1 403-9
OPERATIONAL INTEGRITY 2014* 2018 2019 2020 2020 TARGET CLIMATE CHANGE 2014* 2018 2019 2020 2020 TARGET
Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR)¹   1.11 0.41 0.44 0.36 <0.55 Total CO2e emissions1,2 (CO2e tons) 214 092 167 976 159 848 122 952
(occurrences per 200,000 hours)
Scope 1 Fuels emissions2 (vehicle and non-transport) (CO2e tons) 108 231 117 455 113 443 98 274
TRIR reduced (as a % against a 2014 baseline) – 63 60 68 50
Scope 2 Electricity emissions1 (CO2e tons) 77 082 17 299 16 758 11 864
Number of recordable incidents (# of incidents)2 972 417 432 334
Scope 3 Business travel emissions (CO2e tons) 28 779 33 222 29 647 12 813
Lost Time Incident frequency Rate (LTIR)3 (occurrences per 200,000) 0.60 0.25 0.26 0.23 <0.30
Estimated District Heating CO2 emissions not included in breakdown  – 6 646 6 788 5 697
LTIR reduced (as a % against a 2014 baseline) – 58 57 62 of CO2 emissions (CO2e tons)
Number of near misses4 (# of near misses) 2 028 1 523 1 801 1,959 Decrease in total greenhouse gas emissions   – 22  25 43
(as a % against a 2014 baseline)
Safety training hours (# of hours) 1 053 704 2 142 405 2 497 245 2 483 305
Operational Integrity training per employee (# of hours per employee) 12.6 22.2 26.4 27.9 Total CO2e emissions by source – – –
Transport fuels (as a % of total emissions) 52 74 73 69
1. Number of lost time, restricted duty, medical treatment incidents and fatalities per 200 000 hours worked
Non-transport fuels (as a % of total emissions) 12 16 17 22
2. Number of lost time, restricted duty, medical treatment incidents and fatalities
3. Number of lost time incidents per 200,000 hours worked Electricity (as a % of total emissions) 36 10 10 9
4. E vent, situation or physical environment with the potential to cause injury, damage or loss to people, property and the environment,   Voluntary carbon-offsetting projects (credits purchased by country) 214 092 167 976 159 848 122 952
but which was avoided by circumstance
*  2014 baseline year of our ambition Carbon Intensity (people)1,2 (CO2e tons/FTE) 2.6 1.7 1.7 1.4 2.1
Carbon Intensity (revenue) on constant currency basis1,2,3  42.5 27.6 26.0 21.9 34.0
(CO2e tons / CHF million)
Reduction in annual CO2 emissions per employee   – 32 34 46
(As a % per full-time equivalent employee against a 2014 baseline)
Reduction in annual CO2 emissions by revenue  – 35 39 48
(By revenue against a 2014 baseline)
Total energy consumption by source    810 347   944,479   934,291   862 525 
(Total energy consumption by source)
Standard electricity4 (MWh)  131 999   30 165   29 215   19 922 
Renewable electricity5 (MWh)  219 374   416 122   421 593   420 864 
Vehicle fuels energy (MWh)  332 430   367 636   350 774   288 856 
Non-transport fuels energy (MWh)  126 544   130 556   132 709   132 883 
1. District Heating emissions are not included in this figure
2. Refrigerant gas emissions are not included in this figure
3. On a constant currency basis
4. Electricity bought from a non-renewable tariff linked to Energy Attribute Certificates
5. E lectricity bought from local renewable sources of production and through energy attribute certificates 
Emissions related to District heating are currently not included in this figure
*  2014 baseline year of our ambition
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
92
Databank
 continued 302-1 303-5 305-5
302-2 305-1 306-1
302-3 305-2 306-2
302-4 305-3 306-3
303-3 305-4
CLIMATE CHANGE 2014* 2018 2019 2020 2020 TARGET WATER AND WASTE MANAGEMENT 2014* 2018 2019 2020 2020 TARGET
Total electricity consumption from renewables   62 93 94 95 Water purchased (million of m3) 1.98 1.97 1.90 1.72 2.31
(% of total consumption)
Water use/FTE (annual water purchased per employee (m3/FTE)) 23.7 20.4 20.1 19.3
Total energy consumption per employee (MWh/FTE) 9.7 9.8 9.9 9.7
SGS employees who had sufficient, safe and physically accessible  – 92 93 93
Total energy consumption per revenue1 (MWh/CHF million) 160.7 155.1 152.0 153.9 drinking water (as a % of total employees)
Electricity consumption per FTE (MWh/FTE) 4.2 4.6 4.8 4.9 SGS employees who had access to sufficient sanitary facilities  – 92 93 93
with proper drainage systems (as a % of total employees)
Electricity consumption per revenue1 (KWh/CHF million) 69.7 73.3 73.3 78.7
SGS employees who had access to water for washing and personal  92 93 93
Buildings covered by EEB program (# of buildings) – 628 676 678
hygiene (as a % of total employees)
Energy consumption from buildings covered by EEB program   – 62 77 83
SGS employees who had access to sanitary installations and clean  92 93 93
(% of total energy consumed)
washrooms (as a % of total employees)
Energy conservation measures identified   – 295 446 471
Total waste generated (metric tons) 43 467 48 536 54 032 49 570 59 570
(# of measures identified since beginning)
Hazardous waste generated  10 602 10 920 11 651  9 989 
Buildings assessed onsite through EEB program since beginning   – 33 44 44
(Total weight of hazardous waste generated (metric tons))
(# of buildings)
Non-hazardous waste generated  32 865 37 616 42 381  39 581 
Employees involved in the Add Value With Lëss (# of employees) – – 24 449 24 449
(Total weight of non-hazardous waste generated (metric tons))
Countries that have rolled out the Add Value With Lëss   – – 16 16
Total number of environmental incidents including spills   51 64 74 48
campaign to date (# of countries)
(Total number of environmental incidents including significant spills)
Cars in SGS global fleet (# of cars) 10 088 11 084 10 754 9,921
Cars who meet our Vehicle Emissions Policy (as a %) – 69 76 82 COMMUNITY 2014* 2018 2019 2020 2020 TARGET
New cars who meet our Vehicle Emissions Policy (as a %) – 95 85 87 Investment in community1  738 1 384 1 331 1 243 959
Total scope 3 emissions (CO2e tons) 766 938 917 736 917 839 829 450 Donations to community organisations and voluntary groups 
(CHF thousands on constant currency basis)
Purchased goods and services (CO2e tons) 359 860 433 699 441 064 409 869
Total community projects  217 462 441 323
Fuel and energy related activities   166 896 196 186 206 484 173 553 (# of projects)
(not included in Scope 1 and Scope 2) (CO2e tons)
Community hours  13 021 18 544 17 197 9 151
Capital goods (CO2e tons) 121 536 147 498 137 633 138 991 (# of hours dedicated to community – SC0130)
Employee commuting (CO2e tons) 87 367 103 804 99 082 90 570 Empowerment projects in community  – 242 251 213
Business travel (CO2e) 28 779 33 222 29 647 12 813 (# of projects)
Waste generated in operations (CO2e tons) 2 500 3 327 3 929 3 654 (E#d oufc partoiojenc ptrso)jects in community  – 143 110 77
1. On a constant currency basis
Environmental projects in community  – 77 80 33
*  2014 baseline year of our ambition
(# of projects)
Total community investment in empowerment projects  – 52 54 52
(As a % of total community investment)
Total community investment in education projects  – 32 31 42
(As a % of total community investment)
Total community investment in environmental projects  – 16 15 6
(As a % of total community investment)
1. Since 2018, Investment in community includes philanthropic sponsorships, and since 2019 it also includes the value of in-kind donations
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
*  2014 baseline year of our ambition
93
Independent assurance statement  
102-56
from our auditors
Independent limited assurance  To achieve limited assurance, ISAE 3000 requires  and performed selected systems integrity tests to  – Selected a sample of qualitative disclosures 
that we review the processes and systems used  assess the accuracy of information generated by  significant to the subject matter throughout 
statement by Deloitte SA to SGS 
to compile the areas on which we provide limited  the systems;  the Report, and tested SGS’ assertions against 
SA in accordance with ISAE 3000  assurance. This standard requires that we comply  – Determined potential material quantitative  underlying evidence. As noted above, this also 
(Revised) over the sustainability  with the independence and ethical requirements  and qualitative sustainability key performance  includes testing material qualitative disclosures 
and to plan and perform our assurance engagement  indicators and disclosures from the 2019 Report,  which relate to the performance of the selected 
disclosures and declarations 
to obtain sufficient appropriate evidence on which  by considering criteria such as the outputs of the  sustainability key performance indicators denoted 
of the application of the Global  to base our limited assurance conclusion. It does  company’s materiality process; peer reporting;  in Table 1; 
Reporting Initiative (“GRI”)  not include detailed testing of source data or the  susceptibility of misstatement due to error  – Checked that the Report included a GRI content 
operating effectiveness of processes and internal  or fraud; whether a misstatement or control  index and, for each of the general disclosures 
Standards at a comprehensive  controls. This is designed to give a similar level of  deficiency was noted in the prior-year; indicators  and topic-specific disclosures, verify that an 
level in the preparation of the  assurance to that obtained in a review of interim  or disclosures related to estimates and estimation  appropriate disclosure has been made and that 
financial information. This provides less assurance  methods; changes in calculation methods from  they have been reported in accordance with the 
2020 Sustainability Report.
and is substantially less in scope than a reasonable  prior-year; GRI Standards guidance, to comply with the 
assurance engagement. – For the determined sustainability key performance  target level ‘comprehensive’ compliance;
WHAT WE LOOKED AT: SCOPE OF OUR WORK  indicators (selected as per the methodology noted  – Checked that the GRI disclosures and related 
INHERENT LIMITATIONS 
SGS SA (“SGS”) has engaged us to perform limited  above and presented in Table 1 below) and a  explanations provided by management are in line 
The process an organisation adopts to define, gather 
assurance over the sustainability disclosures and  sample of related disclosures we undertook the  with our understanding of the basis of reporting 
and report data on its non-financial performance 
declaration of the application of the GRI Standards  following procedures: and performance of the business during the year; 
is not subject to the formal processes adopted 
at a comprehensive level (“the Subject Matter”) 
for financial reporting. Therefore, data of this  – Interviewed management and checked  – Where necessary, made recommendations 
presented in the SGS Sustainability Report for the 
nature can be subject to variations in definitions,  documentation to understand and test the  to SGS management based on findings 
year ended 31 December 2020 (“the Report”). 
collection and reporting methodology with no  reporting boundary and group consolidation and  identified during the assurance that required 
The Subject Matter is to be prepared in accordance 
consistent, accepted standard. This may result in  validation checks for complete, accurate and  improvement; and 
with the SGS Basis of Reporting document (Version 
non-comparable information between organisations  appropriate presentation of the information; – Our work did not include reviewing the Value to 
1) dated 16 February 2021, which is based on the 
principles of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)  and from year to year within an organisation  – tested the operating effectiveness of key  Society model presented on pages 23-27 of the 
Standards and is available to users on request.  as methodologies develop. data validation review and sign-off controls;  Report. Our review of Value to Society information 
presented in the Report was limited to testing 
– conducted trend analyses on full year data to 
WHAT WE DID: KEY ASSURANCE PROCEDURES a sample of significant qualitative assertions 
WHAT STANDARDS WE USED: BASIS OF  identify and query anomalies in reported data;
To form our conclusions, we undertook  through obtaining supporting evidence to assess 
OUR WORK AND LEVEL OF ASSURANCE 
the following procedures: – conducted sample-based substantive testing  the existence of any claims, but did not review or 
Our limited assurance engagement on the Subject 
Matter was conducted by a multi-disciplinary  – Interviewed selected SGS management  of Operational Integrity and Human Rights  assess the adequacy of SGS’s basis for reporting 
team of sustainability and assurance specialists  and those with operational responsibility for  to assess the accuracy of data classification,  the value to society information; nor assessed 
in accordance with the International Standard for  sustainability performance to critically evaluate the  in line with the group Reporting Criteria; and the accuracy of the underlying information or 
Assurance Engagement (ISAE) 3000 (Revised),  reporting process, criteria and key controls; – completed a check of the quantitative and  assumptions of sources used. 
qualitative disclosures in the Report related to 
issued by the International Auditing and Assurance  – Interviewed SGS management to understand 
the selected sustainability key performance 
Standards Board. the design of controls and functionality of the 
indicators against our understanding of the 
group sustainability information management and 
sustainability governance, management 
reporting databases used to manage sustainability 
structures, and performance over the year.
data at a corporate level (‘Solaris’ and ‘Crystal’), 
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
94
Independent assurance statement  
102-56
from our auditors
 continued
WHAT WE FOUND: OUR ASSURANCE  OUR INDEPENDENCE AND COMPETENCE  ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
TABLE 1: SELECTED SUSTAINABILITY 
CONCLUSION  IN PROVIDING ASSURANCE TO SGS The Directors are responsible for the preparation 
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Based on our procedures described in this report,  We complied with Deloitte’s independence  of the information and statements contained within 
✓ Number and nature of confirmed incidents  nothing has come to our attention that causes us  policies, which address and, in certain cases,  the Report. They are responsible for determining 
of corruption identified through corporate  to believe that the Subject Matter in the Report for  exceed the requirements of the International  the goals and establishing and maintaining 
helplines (absolute number) the year ended 31 December 2020 has not been  Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’ Code  appropriate performance management and 
✓ Number of Public legal cases regarding  prepared, in all material respects, in accordance  of Ethics for Professional Accountants in their  internal control systems from which the reported 
with the Reporting Criteria.  role as independent auditors, and in particular  information is derived.
corruption brought against the organization/
preclude us from taking financial, commercial, 
employees (absolute number) Our responsibility is to independently express 
EMPHASIS OF MATTER governance and ownership positions which 
✓ Total number of integrity issues  conclusions on the subject matters as defined 
We draw attention to page 86 of the Report  might affect, or be perceived to affect, our 
reported through corporate helplines  within the scope of work above to SGS in 
that explains that the Subject Matter has been  independence and impartiality, and from any 
(absolute number) accordance with our letter of engagement. 
prepared in accordance with the SGS Basis  involvement in the preparation of the report. 
Our work has been undertaken so that we might 
✓ Natural turnover (%) of Reporting, which is based on the Global  We have confirmed to SGS that we have 
state to SGS those matters we are required to state 
✓ Women in leadership positions (CEO-3) (%) Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. The Basis  maintained our independence and objectivity 
to them in this statement and for no other purpose. 
of Reporting sets out the methodology of  throughout the year and in particular that there 
✓ Total recordable incident rate (%) To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not 
bespoke indicators not prepared in accordance  were no events or prohibited services provided 
✓ Lost time incident frequency rate (%) with the GRI Standards. One bespoke indicator  which could impair our independence and  accept or assume responsibility to anyone other 
than SGS for our work, for this report, or for the 
✓ Total number of fatalities (absolute number) is the Scope 1 GHG inventory which excludes  objectivity. We have applied the International 
conclusions we have formed. 
✓ Total greenhouse gas emissions (Scope  direct emissions from refrigerants consumption.  Standard on Quality Control 1 and accordingly 
1, 2, and 3) (thousand tonnes CO e) As disclosed in the SGS Basis of Reporting,  maintain a comprehensive system of quality 
2
management note that sufficient data is not  control including documented policies and 
✓ Total energy consumption by source (GWh)  
practicably available to make a reasonable  procedures regarding compliance with ethical 
✓ Operations identified as having a significant  estimation for the refrigerants emissions  requirements, professional standards and  Matthew Sheerin  Aurélie Darrigade
risk of incidences of child labor, forced  given the high annual variability of refrigerant  applicable legal and regulatory requirements.  Partner  Director
or compulsory labor, or where the right  consumption. A disclosure has therefore 
Our team consisted of a combination 
to exercise freedom of association may  been provided on page 70 of the SGS 2020  Deloitte SA
of Auditors with professional assurance 
be violated (absolute number) Sustainability Report as a caveat to the 
qualifications and professionals with a 
Scope 1 inventory exclusion. This emphasis 
combination of sustainability reporting 
of matter did not modify our assurance 
and subject matter experts including 
opinion, as stated above.
many years’ experience in providing  23 February 2021
sustainability report assurance.
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
95
Get in touch
102-1
102-3
102-53
If you would like further information  SGS SA CORPORATE OFFICE CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY
or to provide feedback on any of the  1 Place des Alpes  PAULA ORDOÑEZ
topics in this report, please do not  P.O. Box 2152  Global Head of Corporate Sustainability  
CH – 1211 Geneva 1  SGS Group Management Ltd
hesitate to get in touch.
t +41 (0)22 739 91 11 
f +41 (0)22 739 98 86 C/Trespaderne, 29 
28042 – Madrid 
www.sgs.com
Spain 
m +34 608 522 981
INVESTOR RELATIONS SGS SA
corporate.sustainability@sgs.com
www.sgs.com
TOBY REEKS
Senior Vice President Communications, 
Sustainability and Investor Relations  PROJECT TEAM
1 Place des Alpes  BEATRIZ CEBRIÁN LÓPEZ
P.O. Box 2152 
Global Sustainability Manager
CH – 1211 Geneva 1 
t +41 (0)22 739 99 87  VICTOR PARRILLA
m +41 (0)79 641 83 02
Global Sustainability Senior Manager
sgs.investor.relations@sgs.com
BLANCA HURTADO
www.sgs.com
Sustainability Communications Manager
MARÍA MONASOR DENIA
Data & Impact Valuation Manager
JAVIER LÓPEZ GÓMEZ
Global Sustainability Projects Manager – 
Energy Efficiency
ALVARO BARATAS GONZÁLEZ
Sustainability Data Analyst
COPYWRITING, DESIGN, REALIZATION AND PRODUCTION
Radley Yeldar, United Kingdom
www.ry.com
SGS | 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
2020 Corporate Sustainability Report
LEARN MORE 
ABOUT HOW 
WE ARE ENABLING 
A BETTER, SAFER 
AND MORE 
INTERCONNECTED 
WORLD
www.sgs.com
SGS is a registered trademark of SGS Société Générale de Surveillance SA