
2020  
SUSTAINABILITY  
REPORT
About This Report
This 2020 Sustainability Report is New Forests’ 10th annual 
sustainability report and is shaped by the company’s 
enduring commitment to sustainability in our business and 
across the investments we manage. Sustainability reporting 
is a key component of our stakeholder engagement, 
reflecting our values of transparency and disclosure around 
material sustainability issues. The report itself is informed 
by New Forests’ corporate purpose and vision, which 
are inextricably linked to global sustainability issues, and 
by a materiality assessment, which was refreshed in the 
development of this report. We seek to incorporate our 
stakeholders’ perspectives and needs regarding the issues 
we report on, while generating constructive discourse 
around the environmental and social challenges and 
opportunities facing our business. Our approach seeks to 
combine facets of best practice for corporate sustainability 
reporting with our clients’ and stakeholders’ interests to 
help them understand ESG and impact reporting across 
the investments we manage. To support benchmarking 
and understanding of our performance over time, prior 
sustainability reports are available on New Forests’ website.
The reporting period focuses on the financial year ending 
in 2020 for New Forests’ investments under management, 
with fund-level impact data presented as at 30 June 2020 
for Australia and New Zealand and data for Southeast Asia 
and US funds presented as at 31 December 2020. Data 
related to New Forests’ direct business operations are 
presented as at 31 December 2020 and reflect our global 
operations, unless otherwise noted. Data is quality assured 
by New Forests’ Operations and Sustainability teams but is 
not third-party assured.
This report was developed by New Forests’ Sustainability 
team, working closely with staff throughout the business, 
especially those who have oversight for asset management. 
New Forests’ Executive Committee reviews and approves 
this report. Comments and questions are always welcome; 
please contact info@newforests.com.au
Report published: April 2021
New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report 1
Table of Contents
Letter From Our CEO   02
About New Forests   04
New Forests’ Business  04
Investment Programs Overview  08
Sustainability at New Forests   10
Sustainability Strategy and Governance  10
Corporate Sustainability  12
Advocacy  14
Responsible Investment  20
Climate Action Plan and Disclosure Update  23
Sustainability Targets  24
Investment ESG and Impact Report   26
Productivity  27
Land Use Planning  32
Ecosystem Services  37
Shared Prosperity  44
Risk Management  48
Governance  52
Advancing Sustainable Landscape Investment  56
SLI Glossary   57
2 Letter From Our CEO New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report
Letter From Our CEO
The world has been wrestling with the COVID-19 pandemic 
and its implications for more than a year, the societal and 
personal costs of which cannot be understated. Throughout 
2020 we also saw a rising call for action against racism, 
gender-based violence, and societal inequality; all of this 
culminated in a year of significant unrest and tumult. 
2020 was a wake-up for society –  
the scale of our global economy and 
population, and associated impacts, are 
creating a rising set of risks that must 
be tackled proactively across sectors 
and regions. I hope that 2020 will prove 
itself to have been a turning point where 
businesses reckoned with the systemic 
risks of social injustice, environmental 
degradation, and the fragility of supply 
chains and affirmed that we will build 
back better. New Forests is determined 
that our business will contribute to this 
effort through executing on our vision 
to see forestry as a key sector helping 
to lead the transition to a sustainable 
future.
I have confidence in this vision as I 
reflect on the milestones we marked in 
2020 – our 15th year in business – which 
we share with you in this Sustainability 
Report. Since 2005, New Forests  David Brand
has grown, gained experience, and 
CEO, New Forests
continued to pursue contributions to 
broader efforts in managing landscapes 
for timber production and conservation, 
climate change mitigation, the  the launch of the Net Zero Asset 
protection and enhancement of  Managers Initiative and the Finance for 
biodiversity, and supporting thriving  Biodiversity Pledge, both of which New 
communities.  Forests joined as a founding member. 
In this report, you will read about 
This report describes our overarching 
some of these engagements, and we 
approach as well as progress and 
invite you to join us in our aspirations 
challenges as we address these 
for impact and advocacy. We aspire 
systemic issues through our investment 
to continue to build our business and 
strategies and active management.
deliver great returns to our clients, while 
However, we know that we cannot  also expanding our positive social and 
address these issues alone. We work  environmental impacts.
with our clients and peers in the 
I hope our 2020 Sustainability Report 
investment industry, the forest sector, 
provides some insight into the efforts 
and the broader business community 
we are making in our investment 
to realise our vision and accelerate 
management business to contribute to 
the scaling of sustainable forestry 
the transition to a sustainable society.
investment. In 2020 we saw important 
collaborative progress, such as 
New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report Letter From Our CEO 3
4 About New Forests New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report
About New Forests
New Forests celebrated its 15th anniversary in July 2020. As the business grows,  
our board and staff remain committed to a corporate purpose and vision based  
on sustainable development.
As global demand for resources  Our investment philosophy 
New Forests’ corporate  grows, there is a need to increase  recognises that institutional 
productivity while ensuring  investment can drive both the 
purpose is investing to 
the conservation of the world’s  productive use and long-term 
create productive and 
remaining forests. New Forests seeks  stewardship of forests and land. 
sustainable landscapes  to create investment strategies that 
Our clients include institutional 
for the benefit of  provide lasting solutions to this 
investors, such as pension funds, 
our clients and the  challenge.  sovereign wealth funds, and 
communities where   Through responsible management  development finance institutions, 
we operate.  of forests and other real assets, New  as well as family offices and other 
Forests creates shared benefit for  sophisticated or qualified investors.
New Forests’ vision is   investors and local communities 
The New Forests group of 
to see forestry as a  alike. New Forests believes that 
companies is led by parent 
meeting the needs of a broad range 
sector helping to lead  organisation New Forests Pty Ltd 
of stakeholders will provide better 
the transition to   and is headquartered in Sydney, 
long-term returns.
Australia. The corporate group 
a sustainable future.
includes entities and employees in 
New Forests’ Business
New Zealand, Singapore, and the 
United States. New Forests invests in 
New Forests is a specialist 
and manages assets across Australia, 
investment manager offering 
New Zealand, Southeast Asia, and 
leading-edge strategies in forestry, 
the United States. 
land management, and conservation. 
New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report About New Forests 5
Countries invested in:
Australia, New Zealand,  
Malaysia, Indonesia,  
Laos, United States
Headquarters in Sydney
Assets under management: Offices in: Melbourne, Mt Maunganui, 
Singapore, San Francisco
5.7 billion AUD 
794,692
hectares of forests and land 74
 
Employees
43%  57% 
Financial Licenses: Female Male
Australian Financial Services License (Australia)
Registered Investment Adviser (United States)
Capital Markets Services License (Singapore)
Our clients come from
10 countries
and represent
25 active  16 fellow PRI  7.6+ million
clients signatories  beneficiaries
6 About New Forests New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report
Governance and Compliance
New Forests’ governance objectives:
New Forests’ governance and compliance frameworks 
are driven by best practice and regulatory obligations.  •  Promote ethical and responsible decision-making
New Forests’ governance and compliance systems 
•  Recognise and manage risks
and procedures encompass funds management, 
administration, and operational controls. With dedicated  •  Maintain fiscal responsibility
Company Secretarial and Risk and Compliance teams,  •  Enable solid foundation for management  
we strive to uphold best practice in governance for the  and oversight
management of New Forests’ business as well as for  
•  Make timely and balanced disclosures
our role as manager and fiduciary for the investments  
we manage.
New Forests Pty Ltd  
Board of Directors Executive Committee  Other Corporate Committees
•  David Brand* (Chair) •  David Brand –   Board committees:
•  Radha Kuppalli* Chief Executive Officer •  Remuneration Committee 
•  Hans Mehn •  Margaret Cole –   •  Risk and Compliance Committee
General Counsel
•  Masaru Namiki •  Valuation Committee
•  Radha Kuppalli –  
•  Charl Pienaar+ •  Product Approval Committee
Managing Director,  
•  John Rogers  Investor Services  •  Nominations Committee
•  Daniel Weiss •  Katie Lintner Chambers –  Corporate and/or fund committees:
Executive Director, Human 
•  Investment Committees 
Resources
•  Management Committees 
•  Mark Rogers –  
Senior Managing Director, 
*Executive Director.
Australia-New Zealand and US
+ Retiring from board in 2021 and will 
•  Geoffrey Seeto –  
be replaced by an independent non-
Managing Director, Asia
executive director.
•  Brian Shillinglaw –  
Managing Director, United States
•  Adrian Williams –  
Chief Financial Officer
The information below reflects material metrics in relation to board composition and activities in 2020. New Forests’ 
board continues to seek to improve its governance practices. Our plans for 2021 include bringing on more female 
directors and independent directors. An independent, non-executive director is expected to join the board in the  
first half of 2021; a woman has been selected to fill this position.
Female   Independent  Executive  Average Tenure   Number of Board  Independent  
Directors  Directors  Directors  of Directors  Meetings Held  Chair 
14% 0% 71% 6.8 years 8 No
New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report About New Forests 7
Human Capital
New Forests’ employees are our  Committee role, filled by Katie  •  Development of a Diversity, 
greatest asset. We are focused on  Lintner Chambers (Executive  Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) Policy 
providing a workplace environment  Director, Human Resources). Other  to support DEI within New Forests 
where everyone can thrive and  notable achievements supporting  and, over time, extending our DEI 
understand how they contribute   human capital in 2020 include: initiatives outside the business.
to the execution of our vision   •  The formalisation of new leave  •  Establishing a Flexible Working 
and mission.  policies, including allowance for  Policy that seeks to support  
two paid volunteer days per year  work-life balance and align with 
To elevate the importance of  
and making parental leave policies  DEI initiatives.
human capital in New Forests, 
gender/career neutral so that all 
in 2020 the board included 
parents receive 13 weeks of paid 
human resources as an Executive 
parental leave.
COVID-19 response measures and employee assistance
Our response to the COVID-19 pandemic included a heightened focus on employee well-being. Since the initial 
crisis response, we have strived to keep employee well-being, including stress management, a central focus for 
management as we continue to assess resourcing, strategy, and priorities in the ongoing pandemic. 
Some of the response measures implemented by New Forests include:
Introducing a  Supporting  Encouraging the  Providing a one- Adapting our 
special exemption  establishment  use of the Employee  time wellness  leadership training 
allowing unlimited  of at-home,  Assistance Program,  subsidy for  to include managing 
leave for employees  ergonomically   which includes  employees to  through uncertainty
who need to  safe offices free counselling  purchase home 
prioritise personal  for employees and  office equipment 
and family care  families as well as  and/or services to 
in response to  other online services  sustain mental and 
COVID-19, such as  and information physical health  
managing school  and wellness
closures and illness
8 About New Forests New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report
Investment Programs Overview
As an investment manager offering services to institutional investors, New Forests 
is committed to providing scaled investment solutions in sustainable real assets that 
address critical challenges around climate change, biodiversity loss, and sustainable 
development through opportunities in forestry, land use, conservation, and related 
infrastructure assets.
Australia and Zealand
Forestry investment in Australia and  Highlights of program activity 
New Zealand provides exposure  during 2020 include:
to mature timber markets, well-
•  Finalising the extension of ANZFF 
established forestry management 
to a semi-permanent capital 
systems, and new opportunities from 
structure, enabling long-term 
increasing Asian demand for wood 
Western  North  planning and management to 
Island products. New Forests’ Australia and 
Australia NSW preserve and create value for the 
New Zealand investment program 
Green    provides balanced exposure to  ANZFF investors.
Triangle
South  Australian softwood and hardwood  •  Overseeing property 
Tasmania Island plantations and New Zealand  management and fibre sale 
softwood plantations in a stable,  activities through COVID-related 
low-risk environment. All assets are  disruptions, including operational 
managed on a sustainable basis  pauses in New Zealand.
AUD 5.1 billion
with a view to enhancing long- •  Continued deployment of 
•  Australia New Zealand Forest 
term productivity and asset value.  ANZFF3 into a high-quality, 
Fund (ANZFF)
Our Australia and New Zealand  diversified portfolio. 
•  Australia New Zealand Forest  investments are characterised by 
Fund 2 (ANZFF2) high-quality certified forestry estates 
•  Australia New Zealand Forest  capable of generating attractive 
Fund 3 (ANZFF3) cash yield and long-term capital 
appreciation.
Southeast Asia
The forestry sector of Southeast  Highlights of program activity 
Asia is at a critical inflection point  during 2020 include:
as the industry shifts toward 
Central  •  The successful completion of 
Laos plantation-based timber supply 
TAFF’s portfolio-wide Forest 
and the development of additional 
Stewardship Council (FSC) 
processing to meet rising Asian 
certification, with certificates 
Sabah,  timber demand. This provides  in place at all three operating 
Malaysia an opportunity for investors to 
portfolio companies.
acquire and develop efficient, 
West   sustainably managed, fast-growing  •  Planning and securing funding 
Kalimantan,  plantations. New Forests focuses  for a landscape-wide program 
Indonesia on certified plantation forestry with  for regional fire protection, 
an emphasis on technological and  biodiversity conservation, and 
silvicultural improvements and a  connection of high conservation 
AUD 210.8 million
rigorous approach to environmental  value (HCV) habitats with natural 
•  Tropical Asia Forest Fund  and community values and good  corridors at PT Hutan Ketapang 
(TAFF) governance. New Forests has  Industri, TAFF’s portfolio 
pioneered institutional investment in  company in Indonesia.
the forestry sector of Southeast Asia  •  Substantially progressed 
through our Tropical Asia Forest  development of a veneer mill 
Fund (TAFF). at Mekong Timber Plantations, 
TAFF’s portfolio company in Laos, 
which will add value to the forest 
investment and provide new 
employment opportunities. 
New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report About New Forests 9
United States 
Forestry investment in the United  Highlights of program activity 
States can now deliver additional  during 2020 include:
Alaska
value from carbon sequestration 
•  Securing a separately managed 
alongside core timber revenue. With 
Maine account of up to USD 500 million 
in-house expertise in conservation 
to invest in climate-smart forestry 
finance and forest carbon markets, 
in North America.1
California New Forests has developed a US 
Carbon Forestry investment strategy  •  Registration of two new offset 
Kentucky
that capitalises on a new source  projects, including New Forests’ 
New Mexico of forest value from the California  third project on forests managed 
carbon market. New Forests uses  for New Forests’ clients and the 
proprietary technology to identify  Chugach Alaska forest carbon 
high carbon value forests, then  project, which completed the 
optimises timber and carbon  conservation of more than 49,000 
AUD 403.9 million
management to enhance returns  acres of old-growth forest in the 
•  Forest Carbon Partners (FCP) through the sale of carbon offsets  Gulf of Alaska and the permanent 
•  Carbon Forestry Separate  while transitioning the forest to  retirement of the Bering River 
Accounts (US Carbon  higher value timber production.  Coal Field.
Forestry) New Forests has developed this  •  Achieving issuance of more than 
strategy to provide investors access  7 million tonnes of California 
to a valuable re-segmentation of the  Compliance Offsets from 
mature United States forestry market  improved forest management 
while directly mitigating climate  projects in FCP and forestry 
change through sustainable forest  separate accounts.
management.
1  The separate account is not included in the 2020 AUM for the United States.
10 Sustainability at New Forests New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report
Sustainability at New Forests
Sustainability Strategy and Governance
New Forests’ strategy is focused on innovating, delivering, and scaling sustainable investments in forestry,  
land, conservation, and related infrastructure. New Forests’ investment products meet market definitions for 
sustainable themed investments and/or impact investments, as shown in the graphic below.
Financial-only Responsible Sustainable Impact Impact-ﬁrst Impact-only
Delivering competitive ﬁnancial returns
Mitigating ESG risks
Pursuing ESG opportunities
Focusing on measurable high-impact solutions
Limited or no  Identify and  Identify and  Address E&S  Address E&S  Address E&S 
regard for  mitigate ESG  pursue ESG  challenges that  challenges where  challenges where 
environmental,  risks in order to  opportunities  generate  ﬁnancial returns  ﬁnancial returns 
social, or  protect value that may enhance  competitive  are less proven may be below 
governance  value or deliver  ﬁnancial returns  market
(ESG practices) environmental  for investors
and social (E&S) 
beneﬁts
Adapted from Bridges Ventures.
Sustainability is central to our  Our approach is guided by the  New Forests’ Board of Directors and 
investment approach, with the  company’s Sustainable Landscape  Executive Committee have direct 
investments we manage being  Investment philosophy (described  oversight of sustainability programs, 
100% ESG integrated, defined  on page 26), which recognises that  ensuring integration into business 
by the Principles for Responsible  ESG issues are critical to investment  strategy and all aspects of business 
Investment as “the explicit and  performance and are interconnected  management. Organisational 
systematic inclusion of ESG   facets that require holistic  capabilities in sustainability are 
issues in investment analysis and  management.  enhanced by allocation of clear roles 
investment decisions.”2  and responsibilities in support of 
sustainability and ESG integration.
Sustainability and ESG Roles and Responsibilities
Board Oversee sustainability strategy and responsible investment policies
Executives and   Oversee sustainability programs through strategic decision-making,  
Management policy setting, and key procedures
Corporate and  
Ensure ESG management and compliance meets requirements, as relevant
Fund Committees
Manage sustainability programs through internal systems, guidance on  
Sustainability Team
ESG issues, reporting, and investment ESG sign-off
Investments and   Implement ESG integration in investment process for assets and oversee  
Operations Teams ESG in funds and assets
Property managers and operating portfolio company staff implement 
Third Parties
sustainability management and activities at the asset level
2  See https://www.unpri.org/fixed-income/what-is-esg-integration/3052.article.
New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at New Forests 11
New Forests’ sustainability and engagement in the supply and value chains
New Forests seeks to work with our stakeholders and across our supply and value chains to promote better outcomes 
for the environment and society. As a financial services firm that focuses on real assets, New Forests considers both 
the services and goods that flow through our supply chain, which extends from the beneficiaries of our institutional 
investment clients to end-users of products made from wood fibre harvested on the forestry investments we manage 
and other goods produced, such as carbon offsets or agricultural goods. Our downstream impacts are the focus of the 
Investment ESG and Impacts section of this report.
Upstream Direct Operations Downstream
Investment  Business  Investment  Investment 
Portfolio  Portfolio Downstream
Capital Operations
The real assets,  The transport, 
The sources and  The day-to-day 
predominantly  manufacturing, use, 
types of capital that  activities undertaken 
forests, that New  and end of service life 
are committed to New  by New Forests' staff 
Value Chain Forests manages  for goods produced 
Forests-managed  as investment 
and the operations  from the investment 
investments manager
of these assets portfolio
Property managers,  Forest products 
Clients  portfolio companies,  industry, 
(asset owners,  workers &  manufacturing, 
Employees 
beneﬁciaries),  contractors, local  shipping, 
Stakeholders suppliers communities, forest  consumers & 
industry end users
790,000+ hectares 
6.5+ million m3 
7.6+ million  5 offices, 74 staff,  of forests and land, 
timber products 
beneﬁciaries 400+ suppliers 24 investments, 
per annum
Scale 6,000+ workers
Financial returns,  GHG emissions  Carbon removals,  GHG emissions 
non-ﬁnancial  (employee travel,  habitat management,  (transport, 
Example portfolio objectives,  office energy) local employment processing), carbon 
e.g. decarbonisation storage in products
Impacts
Upstream – We engage with  Direct Operations – We work  Downstream – We recognise that 
our clients and the broader  throughout all facets of our   the most material impacts in our 
investment community to enhance  business to improve our   value chain occur in the investment 
the understanding and uptake  sustainability, using the B Impact  portfolio owing to the direct and 
of investment opportunities in  Assessment and our Certified B  tangible nature of our investment 
sustainable forestry and land use.  Corp status to guide our activities,  activities in the landscape and with 
Our priorities align with our Climate  including across office sustainability,  regard to employment and the 
Action Plan, seeking to enhance the  DEI, and corporate social  community. External engagements, 
role of forestry as a climate solution.  responsibility to the environment,  such as with the Forest Solutions 
We also support sustainable finance  workers, and communities. Our   Group of the World Business Council 
and practise diligence in Know-Your- direct operations are the focus of   for Sustainable Development 
Client and Anti-Money-Laundering  the Sustainability at New Forests  (WBCSD), promote sustainability 
assessments. section of this report. in forestry and forest products 
industries. We work through our 
Responsible Investment Policy, Social 
and Environmental Management 
System, and Sustainable Landscape 
Investment framework to pursue 
positive impacts while mitigating 
against the risk of adverse impacts. 
12 Sustainability at New Forests New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report
Corporate Sustainability
New Forests’ corporate  B Corp community of leaders is a  to measure the impact on our 
sustainability approach focuses on  global movement of people using  workers, community, environment, 
embedding corporate purpose and  business as a force for good.   and customers and which supports 
ESG throughout our business and  For the Australian financial  recertification. Since becoming a B 
the services we provide. year ending 30 June 2021, New  Corp in 2018 with a verified score 
Forests adopted a group-wide  of 88.1, New Forests’ improvement 
As a Certified B Corp, New Forests  key performance indicator (KPI)  efforts have resulted in an unverified 
is committed to considering the  tied to our performance as a B  score of 119; the score will be 
impacts of our business on workers,  Corp. We seek to make continual  finalised and verified in the 2021 
customers, suppliers, community,  improvements in our B Impact  recertification.
and the environment. The Certified  Assessment score, which is a tool 
2020 Improvements Supporting B Corp Performance and Group Sustainability
Workers Community Environment Customers Governance
•  Supplementary  •  Formalising  •  Purchasing   •  Public facing  •  Managers 
health benefits  charity donation  green energy reports on impact  aligned to 
for part-time  matching for  •  Offsetting   performance  mission – 
employees employees GHG footprint •  Further  added B Corp 
•  Equal paid leave  •  Encouraging   •  Processes to  development of  performance to 
for primary  use of paid  monitor and  blended finance  remuneration 
and secondary  volunteer time report on waste,  products KPIs 
caregivers •  Launch of  electricity, and  •  Planning for 
•  Group-wide  Diversity, Equity,  water usage inclusion of 
employee  and Inclusion  B Corp legal 
engagement  program requirement 
surveys in company 
constitution
New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at New Forests 13
Stakeholders
New Forests’ stakeholders  Two key stakeholder groups – clients  Furthermore, it is our remaining two 
contribute to and should benefit  and communities – are referenced  stakeholder groups – our employees 
from our mission to be the world’s  directly in our corporate purpose:  and our business partners – who 
leading sustainable forestry  investing to create productive  deliver on this purpose through their 
investment manager.  and sustainable landscapes for  day-to-day work.
the benefit of our clients and the 
communities where we operate. 
Stakeholders and New Forests’ purpose, vision, and mission
Employees Clients Business Partners Communities
New Forests’  Clients are at the  Service providers such  New Forests’ global 
purpose depends on  heart of our purpose  as legal, financial,  portfolio has a 
the organisational  and company values,  and auditing firms  growing geographic 
capabilities and  as our investment  support the integrity  footprint, increasing 
strengths we cultivate  management business  of our investment  the number and extent 
in our most important  exists to service  management services.  of communities who 
resource: our  their needs while  At the asset level,  live and work in or 
employees. Our team  also contributing to  business partners  around the forests, 
bring our values to life,  creating productive and  include the local  land, and other assets 
supported by our Code  sustainable landscapes. property management  we manage. Regionally 
of Conduct that guides  and operating portfolio  specific engagement 
how we work with each  companies; it is through  activities, guided by 
other and our external  the direct day-to-day  our corporate purpose, 
stakeholders. work of these groups  seek to ensure our 
that our investment  investment activities 
strategies can achieve  contribute benefits and 
real world impact. shared prosperity to 
these communities.
Materiality
With a strong view on the sustainability challenges and  Learn more
opportunities facing the forest sector, New Forests 
informs its ESG strategy and management approaches 
For more information 
through materiality assessments, which is a process for  about how New Forests  SAATNSASDKE MESHSAMOTEELRDNIETARL ITY 
identifying and assessing the ESG issues that may affect a  assesses materiality and  ISInntvtaeekgserthmaotielndnget  rtashn iend  N NSeueeswdta sFi naoanrebdsi ltCitsyo’  nRScetersarpntoesng osyfib le 
business and its stakeholders. Our materiality assessment 
uses the Sustainable 
focuses on the ESG issues relating to the investments 
Landscape Investment 
we manage rather than our direct business operations, 
(SLI) framework to support 
because of the significant and tangible nature of our 
impact management 
investment activities in the landscape and with regard  
and reporting, see our 
to employment and the community. 
Materiality and Sustainable 
In seeking to better integrate stakeholder feedback   Landscape Investment 
to our sustainability reporting, New Forests launched   Overview.
a stakeholder survey for ESG materiality. 
14 Sustainability at New Forests New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report
Advocacy  
New Forests has identified investment in natural climate solutions (NCS), generation of shared prosperity, and the 
emergence of the circular bioeconomy as central issues where we want to not only have impact as an investment 
manager but also advocate for a policy and industry environment that supports investment in these areas at scale. 
Our next step as a business is to develop an advocacy plan that sets out objectives for our advocacy work, including 
collaboration with networks and industry bodies, policy engagement, and thought leadership tied to impact we 
demonstrate through our investments.
New Forests’ advocacy priorities respond to forestry and land use opportunities
Natural Climate Solutions Macro Context 2020 Progress
In seeking to scale natural  Climate change is a globally significant, systemic  •  Established a business 
climate solutions, New  driver of risks and opportunities. Natural Climate  development team focusing 
Forests will advocate for  Solutions (NCS) could provide up to 30% of  on NCS opportunities 
policies and industry-led  required climate change mitigation by 2030  •  Collaborated to develop 
efforts that will enable  to meet Paris Agreement targets. NCS are an  A 2030 Investment Vision 
forestry investment to  important business and investment opportunity.  for NCS and engaged with 
contribute to positive  New Forests’ strategy includes integrating climate  asset owners 
climate outcomes that  positive actions in the forestry investments we 
•  Participated in technical 
also promote biodiversity  manage, innovating investment models and 
working group revisions to 
and the conservation   structures for climate action, and seeking to 
the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) 
of nature. embed higher ambition climate targets into new 
Protocol to include carbon 
investment products.
removals
•  Participated in the WBCSD 
NCS Group and the NCS 
Alliance
Shared Prosperity Macro Context 2020 Progress
In seeking to generate  Global inequalities continue to escalate, and  •  Adopted the UN Guiding 
shared prosperity at  macro-shocks like COVID-19 have further  Principles on Business and 
scale, New Forests will  demonstrated the vulnerabilities in our society,  Human Rights
advocate for forestry  particularly for people of colour, Indigenous  •  Implemented modern 
investment models  Peoples, and casual and contract-based workers  slavery risk program, 
and business practices  who lack labour protections. New Forests aims  including launch of supplier 
that will support more  to manage investments in a way that does not  surveys on modern slavery
prosperous communities  exacerbate the systemic drivers of inequality. 
•  Supported property 
and sustainable  Rather, through focusing on human rights, 
managers and portfolio 
development.  ensuring the integrity of work, and supporting 
companies to manage 
more resilient supply chains, we believe we 
supply chain and 
can encourage shared prosperity. This means 
community impacts  
our strategies seek to work with suppliers and 
of COVID-19
investees who employ business practices that 
support local community development, provide 
equitable access to opportunity, and promote 
diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI).
New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at New Forests 15
Circular Bioeconomy Macro Context 2020 Progress
In seeking to advance  Worldwide demand for timber and wood fibre,  •  Supported the investment 
the emergence of a  agricultural goods, and other commodities  plan of Timberlink Australia 
circular bioeconomy,  continues to increase, driven by rising population  (a portfolio company) 
New Forests will  and consumption. Traditional patterns of  to develop mass timber 
advocate for policies  production and consumption have followed a one- production facilities 
and industry-led efforts  way, linear path from production to manufacturing  •  Supported the Forest 
that will support the  to use and disposal. This model is fundamentally  Solutions Group 
provision of forest  extractive and unsustainable.  engagement in the circular 
products for a low- bioeconomy work of the 
By contrast, the circular bioeconomy has emerged 
carbon and sustainable  WBCSD
as a new model where resource efficiency, use 
economy.
and reuse, and process innovation are critical. As 
a forestry investment manager, New Forests is 
intrinsically exposed to timber demand as a driver 
for investment return, but we also recognise that 
the efficient and expanding use of wood fibre and 
timber will be vital to a future net zero economy. 
The growth of the circular bioeconomy should be 
positively correlated with the success of sustainable 
forestry and land use investments.
16 Sustainability at New Forests New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report
2030 Investment Vision for  
Natural Climate Solutions
To achieve a net zero emissions economy, institutional  The vision and the convening proceedings can be 
investment in natural climate solutions (NCS) is required  accessed online at www.newforests.com.au/NCSvision. 
alongside the clean energy transition. Hundreds of  In 2021, New Forests will continue this strategic investor 
billions of dollars need to be invested in NCS over the  engagement on the NCS Investment Vision with a focus 
next decade – yet investment to date has been limited  on embedding NCS into portfolio decarbonisation 
and investors have little understanding regarding how to  frameworks.
access these investments. To increase investor awareness, 
New Forests, working with Generation Investment 
Management, Ceres, Conservation International, Forest 
Trends, SYSTEMIQ, The Nature Conservancy, and the 
World Resources Institute (WRI), developed A 2030 
Investment Vision for Natural Climate Solutions. 
The vision seeks alignment of institutional investment 
portfolios with a sustainable land use transition that 
not only addresses climate targets but also protects  A 2030 Investment Vision for
biodiversity and supports the Sustainable Development  Natural Climate
Goals. Over the course of 2020, New Forests and  Solutions
Generation engaged with a wide range of asset owners 
about the vision. This investor engagement culminated  Recognising an Opportunity at Scale for Institutional Investors
in a virtual convening in February 2021, which focused 
on accelerating deployment of investor resources into 
With contributions from
NCS. Over 30 leading asset owners and asset managers 
totalling approximately USD 10 trillion in assets under 
management attended.  January 2021
New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at New Forests 17
Collaborating to Enhance Corporate GHG 
Accounting for Forestry and Land Use
The WBCSD and WRI are developing updated GHG Protocol 
guidance on how companies and organisations should account 
for GHG emissions and carbon removals from land use, land use 
change, bioenergy, and related topics in their GHG inventories, 
building on the Corporate Standard and Scope 3 Standard.3 
New Forests supports the benefits of this update, as the more 
complete inclusion of land-use-related emissions and carbon 
removals within GHG inventories can be an important incentive 
to reduce emissions and increase carbon removals from land 
use. Comprehensive accounting would enable better climate 
target setting, allow investors to understand forestry portfolio 
emissions/removals, and provide consistency in understanding 
how forestry and land use contribute to climate change and 
climate mitigation. Accordingly, New Forests participated  
in the guidance update via the Carbon Removals technical 
working group. New Forests believes that carbon emissions 
and removals from forests and land should be considered  
“in the scopes” of the GHG Protocol, thus providing the 
greatest transparency and ability to incentivise increasing 
carbon stocks in forests and on land. 
A more novel and critically important consideration is also 
including the climate impact of stored carbon in biogenic 
products, such as harvested wood products, within the scopes. 
New Forests coordinated with forest sector participants to 
develop a proposal that includes the carbon storage function of 
such products to be included as a carbon removal in the scopes 
of the GHG Protocol. Taken together, these related aspects of 
accounting for emissions and removals on land and valuing the 
carbon storage of harvested wood products offer the potential 
to increase the forest sector visibility and contribution to global 
climate mitigation efforts. The GHG Protocol revisions with 
the Carbon Removals Standard are anticipated to be piloted 
starting in 2021; New Forests will pilot the new guidance as part 
of our Climate Action Plan.
3  See https://ghgprotocol.org/blog/new-greenhouse-gas-protocol-guidance-carbon-removals-and-land-use
18 Sustainability at New Forests New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report
New Forests and the Sustainable 
Development Goals
New Forests supports the Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs) as the global agenda to systematically 
and comprehensively address the most challenging 
environmental, social, and development challenges 
of our times. 
We believe the investments we manage are best 
positioned to deliver positive progress toward  
Goal 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth,  
Goal 12: Responsible Consumption and Production, 
Goal 13: Climate Action, and Goal 15: Life on Land. 
These themes are critical to the investments we  Learn more
manage, and we provide a report on contributions to 
the Global Goals in our SDG Dashboard. Throughout  Check out the  
this report, we use the SDG icons to link case studies  Forest Sector  
to New Forests’ actions in support of the Global Goals. SDG Roadmap
Economy-wide action is needed to deliver on the  https://www.wbcsd.
SDGs. To support this shift, New Forests is proud  org/Sector-Projects/
to participate in the World Business Council for  Forest-Solutions-Group/
Sustainable Development (WBCSD) sector-based  Resources/Forest- FSoDrGe sRto Saedcmtoarp  
Forest Solutions Group (FSG), which developed the  Sector-SDG-Roadmap- Implementation report
SDG Roadmap for the forest sector and in 2020  Implementation-Report
published its Implementation Report on progress.
New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at New Forests 19
•  Achieve higher   •  Sustainable  •  Mobilise climate  •  Sustainable  
levels of productivity management and   finance forest management
•  Job creation use of natural  •  Emissions reductions •  Ecosystem restoration
resources
•  End modern slavery   •  Carbon dioxide   •  Increase afforestation 
and child labour •  Sustainable  (CO) removals and reforestation
consumption   2
•  Reduce natural 
and production
habitat degradation, 
biodiversity loss,  
and extinction of 
threatened species
New Forests’ 2020 Contribution to the SDGs 8 12 13 15
Individuals employed with workers’ rights requirements  6,000+ people
Tonnes timber produced/net productive hectare 14 tonnes per hectare
Ratio of production area to conservation area 1.8:1
Volume of certified timber produced 6.1 million m3
Percentage of timber production that is certified 95%
Carbon stored in production forests 169.3 million tonnes COe
2
Net carbon sequestration in production forests over 2020 2 million tonnes COe
2
Carbon offsets generated 7.5 million tonnes COe
2
Low-carbon investment – dollars invested  AUD 409.8 million
Area of certified forest management 754,000+ hectares
Area of environmental restoration 8,200+ hectares
Area of commercial reforestation  22,240+ hectares
Area of environmental reforestation 420+ hectares
20 Sustainability at New Forests New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report
Engagement and Industry Leadership
New Forests participates in industry initiatives, networks, and organisations to advance responsible investment  
and sustainable forestry through collaboration, knowledge sharing, and development of best practices.
New Forests was honored  
to receive the following  
recognitions in 2020.
Responsible Investment
Responsible Investment (RI) is an approach that 
incorporates ESG factors throughout the investment 
process; New Forests’ sustainability framework 
supports implementation of the RI Policy throughout 
all investment activities. 
A+ Rating
New Forests uses RI as a tool to enhance its ESG 
Strategy and 
impact. This includes promoting land use that considers 
Governance
ecosystem services and preserves critical natural values; 
supporting the development of local communities and  See report here:
promoting diversity, equity, and inclusion; enhancing 
best practices for governance; and encouraging the  https://newforests.
development of products that have positive impacts on  com.au/wp-content/
society and the environment.  uploads/2020/07/ 
2020-Assessment-
2020
New Forests celebrated its 10th anniversary as a 
Report-for-New- New Forests Pty Limited
signatory to the Principles for Responsible Investment 
Forests-Pty- 
in mid-2020. We remain committed to working with 
Limited.pdf
the PRI and its network to promote the role of forestry 
and land use as sustainable investments. New Forests’ 
PRI Transparency Report and Assessment Report are 
publicly available on our website or via the secure data 
portal of the PRI for fellow signatories. New Forests 
obtained an A+ rating in the 2020 assessments, which 
covered 2019 ESG activities.
New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at New Forests 21
Responsible Investment Policy 
During 2020, New Forests undertook a review of 
its RI Policy with a view to meet or exceed the ESG 
requirements from our clients and evolving best practice 
standards for corporate social responsibility. We believe  Learn more
RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT POLICY
the new RI Policy and the internationally recognised 
sustainability frameworks referenced within it represent  New Forests’ RI  
best practice. New Forests’ Executive Committee  Policy is available  
recommended the updated RI Policy to New Forests’  on our website at: 
Board of Directors for approval in early 2021. The Board 
www.newforests. 
endorsed the RI Policy update and its ability to contribute 
com.au/RIPolicy
to New Forests’ targeted business excellence and impact 
and advocacy objectives.
Aligning with Best Practices to Enhance Responsible Investment Integration
OECD Guidance for Multinational Enterprises and related guidance for Responsible Business Conduct  
for Institutional Investors
UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UN GPBHR)
UN Global Compact 
International Labour Organization (ILO) and its Core Conventions
Voluntary Guidelines on the Responsible Governance of Tenure of Land, Fisheries, and Forests (VGGT)
World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD)
22 Sustainability at New Forests New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report
Social and Environmental  The management review focused  Sustainable Landscape 
Management System  on assessing the adequacy of  Investment
New Forests’ SEMS to ensure 
New Forests’ Social and  its appropriateness to deliver  To support New Forests’ vision, 
Environmental Management System  the company’s strategy and  mission, and objectives, New Forests 
(SEMS) is a cornerstone of the  commitments, manage ESG issues,  employs its Sustainable Landscape 
company’s approach to responsible  and meet stakeholders’ expectations  Investment (SLI) approach that 
investment and is designed to ensure  and requirements. Some of the  focuses on business, environmental, 
effective management of E&S issues  key areas for improvement moving  and social performance and 
related to New Forests’ investment  forward are: accounts for the material ESG 
activities. The SEMS is New Forests’  impacts and aspects of our real-
•  Formalising SEMS integration 
framework to systematically  assets investment program. The 
into the investment process 
identify, manage, and report on E&S  SLI framework reflects our view 
via guidance documents and 
issues and potential impacts of the  that conservation, production, and 
compliance monitoring,
investments we manage. societal values can be combined in 
•  Updating fund-level SEMS 
the landscape and that managing 
SEMS activity in 2020 focused on  Declaration Documents to reflect 
material ESG issues supports better 
a complete review and revision of  current best practice and team 
investment performance in forestry, 
the SEMS Policy Manual as well as  needs, and
land use, and conservation. We 
conducting a management review  
•  Conducting all-staff and new-staff  use the SLI approach to support 
of New Forests SEMS activities.  
trainings on the SEMS to ensure  ESG and impact management; the 
The updated manual and review 
alignment. Investment ESG and Impact Report 
were approved by New Forests’ 
section discusses how we implement 
Executive Committee in early 2021.  The review complemented the full 
the SLI framework and the 2020 
revision and update of the SEMS 
impact data. This SLI philosophy 
Policy Manual; together the review 
is at the heart of our sustainability 
and updated SEMS Policy Manual 
agenda, and key actions through 
present a path forward for continual 
2020 sought to further embed 
improvement. 
SLI into the policies, procedures, 
and systems that support the 
investments we manage.
New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at New Forests 23
Climate Action Plan and  
Disclosure Update 
Climate Disclosure Report
New Forests embarked on an ambitious Climate Action 
Plan (CAP) in March 2020, together with publishing  New Forests’ inaugural Climate Disclosure 
the group’s first Climate Disclosure Report. The CAP  Report was published in March 2020 and 
reflects the climate ambition of our business and seeks  received the TCFD Report of the Year award from 
to identify the climate action opportunities in the  Environmental Finance. The report introduced 
investments we manage. New Forests launched a diverse  our approach to climate strategy and governance, 
staff consultancy group in 2020 to address the goals of  risk management, and 
the CAP. The key outcomes for the CAP in 2020 related  our plans for supporting 
to collaborating to standardise forestry climate impact  TCFD alignment in the 
and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions reporting, a Task  investments we manage. It 
Force for Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)  also disclosed New Forests’ 
alignment project, and achieving climate neutrality for  key physical and transition 
our business. risks and opportunities. 
New Forests embarked on a project to align management  Climate disclosure data 
of its portfolio with TCFD recommendations in April  updates can be found in 
CLIMATE DISCLOSURE REPORT
2020, with a focus on implementing climate scenario  the Land Use Planning  March 2020
analysis and climate-risk management at the asset level.  and Ecosystem Services 
sections of this report.
New Forests piloted its TCFD-aligned strategic planning 
framework with its Australian and New Zealand assets in  www.newforests.com.au/CDR2020
the second half of 2020; we expect to do the same for US 
and Asian assets in 2021.
New Forests conducted its first GHG inventory in 
2020 to calculate the Scopes 1, 2, and 3 emissions 
Business emissions total: 1,588 tCO e
for our business operations and Scopes 1 and 2 for  2
the investments we manage. From this, we were 
able to achieve climate neutrality for our business 
for 2020 by purchasing offsets from accredited  Purchased carbon offests4 from two 
projects. New Forests purchased 1,588 credits  
projects in equal amounts
from two Verified Carbon Standard + Climate, 
Community and Biodiversity Alliance (VCS+CCBA) 
verified projects, which means they comply with 
Achieved climate neutrality for our 
the Verified Carbon Standard and the Climate, 
business for 2020
Community, and Biodiversity Alliance Standards.
Total business GHG emissions (tCO e) Total investment GHG emissions (tCO e)
2 2
Scope 1: 127
Scope 2: 178
Scope 3: 1,283 Scope 1: 18,148
Scope 2: 13,601
4  New Forests purchased offsets from Wildlife Works Southern Cardamom REDD+ Project and Cool Effect’s Katingan Project.
24 Sustainability at New Forests New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report
Sustainability Targets 
Sustainability targets have   Remuneration Linked to  The B Impact Assessment relates to 
always been integral components  ESG Key Performance  the assessment system used as part 
of New Forests’ business plan,  of being a Certified B Corp; New 
Indicators 
although we have not consistently  Forests conducts quarterly updates 
disclosed progress and challenges  As part of its Remuneration Policy,  to the B Impact Assessment as a 
related to targets through  for the financial year ending 30 June  means of monitoring alignment and 
our public reporting. We will  2021, New Forests implemented a  performance as a Certified B Corp. 
systematically report on our  set of ESG-related key performance  As this is a pilot year for these KPIs, 
business’ sustainability targets   indicators (KPIs) linked to employee  we will assess how they impacted 
via this and future public reports. remuneration across four areas of  employee attention to these critical 
the business, two of which focus   issues at the end of the financial year 
on sustainability: ESG integration  and make any adjustments as we 
and B Impact Assessment. ESG  start FY2022.
integration focuses on compliance 
with internal and external 
requirements for ESG integration, 
procedures, and reporting. 
Meet or exceed 95% pass rate on all ESG obligations, as recorded in 
ESG Integration
compliance tracking.
B Impact Assessment Meet or exceed the median B Impact Assessment score for peer group in FY21.
Climate Action Plan Targets
New Forests launched its Climate  We are proud of the progress  climate solution, and demonstrating 
Action Plan (CAP) in 2020; the full  made against 2020 objectives and  scaled investment pathways to net 
plan and targets are described in  will continue to execute our CAP  carbon removals.
New Forests’ Climate Disclosure  with a focus on climate neutrality, 
Report 2020.  collaborating on forestry as a 
We will be a climate neutral  We will work collaboratively  We will demonstrate 
business to ensure that forestry is  investable pathways to 
recognised as a climate  transition the forestry sector 
solution from a net GHG emissions 
source to a source of net 
carbon removals
2020 Target Measure and report the GHG  Advance forestry GHG  Work with clients to embed 
footprint (Scopes 1, 2, and 3)  accounting through  forestry investment in net zero 
of our business operations and  collaborative working groups,  commitments.
achieve climate neutrality. and pilot GHG footprint of 
investment operations.
2020 Status Completed – See page 23 for  Ongoing – See page 41  Ongoing – New Forests 
New Forests’ GHG inventory  for improvements in New  collaborated with others to 
and climate neutrality  Forests’ GHG reporting for  create a 2030 Investment 
achievements. investments.  Vision for NCS and engaged 
with asset owners; New 
See page 17 for an update on 
Forests joined the Net Zero 
New Forests’ collaboration for 
Asset Managers initiative.
GHG accounting in forestry.
New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at New Forests 25
Setting Impact Targets in Managed Investments
New Forests has a track record  As part of the review of our asset- The approach uses the SLI 
of delivering on environmental  level strategic planning framework  framework and risk and opportunity 
and social performance in the  and efforts to align ESG and impact  assessments to inform the 
investments we manage in alignment  management throughout the  establishment of targets. We aspire 
with our Sustainable Landscape  associated procedures, in 2020  to deepen our approach to setting 
Investment approach. New Forests developed a simple  and delivering impact targets.
guidance document and template for 
setting impact targets in managed 
investments. 
Strategic Projects Link to SLI Themes Use ESG KPI Target Report on Progress
•  Vulnerability  •  Productivity •  Set objective •  Quarterly/annual 
& Benefits  •  Ecosystem Services •  Is there a relevant  reporting using 
Assessment •  Shared Prosperity SLI metric? performance 
•  Risk &  •  Land Use Planning •  Set target  measure
Opportunities  performance  •  Annual progress 
Register •  Risk Management  measure statement
(E&S)
•  Fund-level ESG 
Objectives •  Governance
26 Investment ESG and Impact Report New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report
Investment ESG and Impact Report
New Forests’ Sustainable Landscape Investment (SLI) framework supports our 
approach to managing ESG issues and impact as part of investment performance, 
recognising that ESG management is vital for risk management and can also create 
financial and non-financial value for the investment, the environment, and society.  
The SLI framework includes six interconnected themes: productivity, land use 
planning, ecosystem services, shared prosperity, risk management, and governance.
LAND USE 
PRODUCTIVITY PLANNING
Primary Production,  Conservation Land 
Resource Description,  Use, Production 
Resource Efficiency,  Land Use, Social 
Research and  Land Use, Land  
Development Use Change
Enhancing biological  Analysing 
productivity and resource  economic, social, 
efficiency through  and environmental 
technology and innovation values to determine 
optimal land 
allocation
ECOSYSTEM 
SERVICES
Biodiversity, Carbon  RISK  
and Climate, Water,  MANAGEMENT
Recreation and 
Risk Management 
Cultural Services
PPeerrffoorrmmaannccee Systems, Health and 
Effectively valuing  Safety, Climate Risk
and promoting 
Identifying 
positive externalities 
and managing 
from forestry and 
risks across all 
land management
operational facets to 
ensure resilience
SHARED 
PROSPERITY
Community  GOVERNANCE
Development, 
Strategic 
Employment 
Planning, Systems 
and Livelihoods, 
and Policies, 
Industry and  
Management and 
Supply Chain
Oversight
Addressing social 
Upholding best 
and financial 
practices for 
inequality to 
governance and 
empower local 
compliance to 
communities
create more 
valuable businesses
New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report Investment ESG and Impact Report 27
The SLI metrics, as well as discussion  •  Forest Carbon Partners (FCP)  New Forests’ SLI framework focuses 
of the material issues to which they  data is not reported for most  on the Productivity sub-themes 
relate, form the basis of the reporting  indicators because the FCP  of Resource Description, Primary 
in this section.5 The definitions  activities are undertaken on land  Production, Resource Efficiency, and 
of metrics relating to data in this  owned by third parties who are  Research and Development.
report are provided on page 57.  responsible for land management. 
Resource Description and 
The following sections describe our  FCP activities are restricted to 
approach to managing the material  offset project development and  Management
SLI issues and provide aggregated  carbon credit marketing and do 
Resource Description and 
data at the fund level, where  not include operational forestry 
Management metrics are used to 
possible, for each of our commingled  management.
monitor the key characteristics of our 
investment funds with the following 
production forests, including growth 
exceptions: Productivity 
rates, standing volume, harvested 
•  Data pertaining to the investments  volume, and growth volume. The 
Efficient and responsible production 
held in US Carbon Forestry  majority of this SLI data is used for 
of renewable resources is a key 
separate accounts are reported   internal asset management functions 
component of a future sustainable 
in aggregate. rather than being oriented toward 
economy. Productivity is a central 
•  The Australia New Zealand  external environmental and social 
driver of investment return and value, 
Forest Fund (ANZFF) sawmilling  impact reporting. 
but it is also important to ensure 
investments operating as 
that responsible scaling does not  In total, New Forests’ forestry funds 
Timberlink are not included for 
adversely impact ecosystem values  encompass 794,692 hectares (gross) 
Productivity, Land Use Planning, 
that underpin production and long- of forests and land, of which the net 
and Ecosystem Services but are 
term asset stability.  managed production forest area is 
included for relevant Shared 
around 58%. See page 34 for more 
Prosperity, Risk Management,  
information about Production Land 
and Governance data.
Use and areas under management.
Gross Asset Area (hectares)
US Carbon   All Funds 
ANZFF ANZFF2 ANZFF3 TAFF Forestry (sum)
272,577 250,513 45,018 149,308 77,276 794,692
US Carbon Forestry 9.7%
TAFF 18.8% ANZFF 34.3%
ANZFF3 5.7%
ANZFF2 31.5%
5  As a fiduciary managing privately held assets, New Forests discloses ESG performance and impacts that are viewed as having material importance 
to external stakeholders. Metrics that are not used for public disclosure contribute to client reporting and/or to support asset management and 
internal decision-making. While we are committed to transparency in support of the stakeholders who are interested in and may be affected by the 
investments we manage, we must balance disclosure with commercial sensitivities. 
28 Investment ESG and Impact Report New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report
Sweetening Returns with Integrated  
Forestry and Manuka Honey Production 
In October 2019, ANZFF3 acquired a property in the 
Wairarapa region of New Zealand’s North Island. New Forests 
purchased the property from a manuka honey producer and 
as part of the transaction entered into a long-term apiary 
agreement to enable continued honey production on the land. 
Manuka honey is produced from the manuka tree, which is 
native to New Zealand. The property contains a mix of manuka 
vegetation, ideal for honey production, and areas of hilly 
grazing country, on which New Forests has established a new 
Pinus radiata plantation. Not only does the apiary agreement 
enable the former owner to continue to access the land for 
honey production, but it also ensures the manuka vegetation 
remains utilised. Honey is a non-timber forest product (NTFP) 
and, in the case of New Zealand manuka honey, represents 
a high-value product that relies on indigenous vegetation. It 
also provides mutual commercial benefit, as ANZFF3 shares 
in the revenue from the honey. The combined production of 
timber and honey is an example of how integrated production 
systems can produce a range of benefits: producing wood 
fibre from new plantations, sequestering carbon from a 
growing forest estate, producing food from NTFPs, sustaining 
native plants and biodiversity, supporting local jobs, and 
enhancing the overall utility of the land. 
New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report Investment ESG and Impact Report 29
Primary Production
New Forests’ investments harvested  A US Carbon Forestry asset was  This resulted in only 3.5% of 
and sold more than 6.4 million  uncertified from January through  US Carbon Forestry’s annual 
tonnes of timber in 2020. A total   November 2020 due to the  harvest being completed under 
of 95% of timber harvested came  property manager withdrawing  certification; however, the asset was 
from forests certified under FSC  from certification while addressing  managed under sustainable forest 
and/or PEFC.  ongoing corrective actions.  management principles throughout 
the year as the property managers 
worked to reinstate certification.
Timber Harvest and Certification 
US Carbon   All Funds 
ANZFF ANZFF2 ANZFF3 TAFF Forestry (sum)
Timber Harvest 
Volume (m3) 3,049,929 2,310,956 645,737 112,500 332,780 6,451,902
Certified Timber 
Harvest Volume (m3) 3,049,929 2,310,956 645,737 112,500 11,831 6,130,953
Certified Harvest (%) 100 100 100 100 3.5 95
Timber Harvest Volume (million m3)
3.5 Certified  
Harvest Volume
Non-certified  
3.0
Harvest Volume
)
3m 2.5
n 
o
milli
2.0
(
e 
m
u
ol
V 1.5
t 
s
e
v
r
a
H 1.0
0.5
0.0
ANZFF ANZFF2 ANZFF3 TAFF US Carbon Forestry
The Timberlink sawmills (owned by  with the remainder coming from  of solid wood (84% certified) and 
ANZFF) operate with FSC chain of  local third-party plantations that  over 205,000 bone dry metric 
custody certification and purchase  meet the company’s responsible  tonnes (BDMT) of woodchip  
the bulk of their wood supply from  sourcing requirements. In 2020,  (87% certified).
New Forests’ certified plantations,  Timberlink sold over 501,000 m3 
30 Investment ESG and Impact Report New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report
Building Better with Wood – 
Timberlink’s Investment in  
Mass Timber
Timberlink, a wood processing business owned by 
New Forests’ ANZFF, has announced plans to build 
a cross-laminated timber (CLT) and glue-laminated 
timber (GLT) manufacturing facility in Tarpeena, 
South Australia. This is an innovative and exciting 
addition to the region’s timber manufacturing 
base and addresses rising demand for sustainable 
building solutions in Australia. Timberlink will begin 
construction of the facility in 2021, with expected 
completion in 2023. The mill will create 27 jobs in 
the first operating year, peaking to 50 when fully 
operational. It will be the first combined CLT/GLT 
plant in Australia, making it uniquely positioned to 
meet increasing demand for these products and 
reduce Australia’s reliance on imported materials.
CLT and GLT are produced from thin pieces of 
timber glued together to make a larger, stronger 
panel. These materials are primarily used for 
residential and midrise buildings, as they are 
cost effective, enhance liveability, and allow for 
simple, efficient construction. They are sustainable 
alternatives to traditional building materials, such 
as steel or concrete, not only due to the carbon 
stored in the wood products but also because 
they substitute for products that themselves are 
GHG emissions intensive. Therefore, increasing the 
use of CLT and GLT in construction and reducing 
equivalent amounts of emissions-intensive 
building materials could reduce the sector’s 
overall carbon footprint. CLT and GLT are also 
important aspects of the circular bioeconomy, 
which refers to the sustainable production, 
use, recycling, and retirement of materials and 
products. Advancements in CLT and GLT mean 
that these products are anticipated to grow in 
usage, enhancing the circularity and renewable 
sourcing of products in the built environment. 
Supporting innovation and market development 
for advanced wood products supports New 
Forests’ commitment to advancing the circular 
bioeconomy across our value chain.
Learn more at: https://www.timberlinkaustralia.
com.au/articles/what-is-clt-glt. 
New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report Investment ESG and Impact Report 31
Research and Development
New Forests manages assets  strategy for each investment and/ property managers and investee 
to create long-term value for  or fund. Across all funds, R&D  companies, New Forests also seeks 
our clients. One way we do this  expenditure in 2020 totalled AUD  to foster cross-investment and 
is by investing in research and  3 million, or approximately AUD  industry collaboration to support 
development (R&D). R&D initiatives  3.8 per gross hectare of forestry  continual improvement in forest 
are aligned to the asset management  investments. Collaborating with our  management.
R&D and Industry Collaboration (AUD) 
US Carbon   All Funds 
ANZFF ANZFF2 ANZFF3 TAFF Forestry (sum)
R&D Expenditure 1,184,361 807,734 88,728 784,385 149,542 3,014,750
Industry 
Collaboration 
Expenditure 821,618 930,479 26,589 341,145 88,975 2,208,806
Using Artificial Intelligence and 
Remote Sensing to Measure and 
Manage Forests
New Forests partnered with a geospatial assessment 
company to conduct a forest biometric analysis of 
Shasta Cascade Timberlands (SCT). The analysis 
combined machine learning and statistical methods 
with aerial multispectral imagery and LiDAR to 
measure various characteristics of the forest. The 
field is rapidly advancing due to improvements in 
remote sensing and artificial intelligence. New Forests 
initiated the project to enhance best practices in forest 
management and to inform the development of a 
carbon offset project at SCT.
Multispectral aerial imagery of SCT was collected using 
a fixed-wing aircraft to map species and disturbance 
across the forest. Collecting data in this way represents 
a new best practice strategy for the sector because it 
provides high levels of detail in a cost-effective manner. 
The team combined the images from the spring of 
2020 with LiDAR data collected in fall 2019 to:
•  Generate canopy height and canopy closure values 
for the property; these variables help predict timber 
and carbon volumes and values. 
•  Create maps with colourised data, allowing for 
individual tree analysis.
•  Calculate tree crown points, which can be used to 
approximate tree locations.
New Forests’ will use this analysis to establish a 
management plan for SCT that uses highly spatially 
resolved biophysical information about the forest.
Shasta Cascade Timberlands
32 Investment ESG and Impact Report New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report
Land Use Planning
New Forests’ Land Use Planning  Conservation Land Use To understand how conservation 
theme focuses on Conservation,  value is integrated in land use 
Production, and Social land uses  Central to New Forests’ vision for  planning, New Forests uses metrics 
as well as reporting on Land  sustainable forestry is the belief that  that describe the areas that are 
Use Change. Land use planning  forests should contribute to regional  managed for environmental 
approaches are guided by both  and global conservation aims,  restoration, environmental market 
regulatory requirements and forest  including those of local communities.  projects, permanently protected 
management standards. In this  The high conservation value  areas, conservation zones, and 
section, we report on land use  (HCV) approach and other land  natural forest and remnant 
activities across the investments we  use planning tools support better  vegetation areas.
manage and discuss the economic,  decision-making for conservation, 
social, and environmental values  protection, and restoration alongside 
provided by sustainable forestry   commercial investment activities. 
and land management. 
Conservation Land Use Areas (hectares) 
US Carbon   All Funds 
ANZFF ANZFF2 ANZFF3 TAFF FCP Forestry (sum)
Environmental 
Restoration 
Management Area* 0 271 10 7,600 N/A 327 8,208
Environmental 
Markets Project 
Area 3,439 6,000 20,933 0 152,079 12,137 194,588
Permanently 
Protected Area 4,646 11,855 201 17,883 N/A 8,231 42,816
Conservation Zone 
or Protected Area 29,191 43,996 1,819 54,229 N/A 11,777 141,012
* Note: Environmental Restoration Management Area shows only areas with active management during the year; areas in ongoing succession following prior 
treatments are included in Conservation Zone or Protected Area.
New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report Investment ESG and Impact Report 33
Long-term Ecological Monitoring 
at Penola Plantations
Impressive efforts have been made at Penola  Further assessments identified two endangered fauna 
Plantations in South Australia to restore and  species present on the site, the heath mouse and the 
enhance ecosystem services through improved land  Swamp Antechinus, both of which are sensitive to  
management techniques. In 2013, an ecological survey  fire risks.
identified 80 hectares of damp heathland at the 
To conserve this ecosystem, Penola Plantations 
Werrikoo property, which is a significant habitat of 
adopted a series of management activities from  
high conservation value. 
2016 to 2020:
2016 2018 2019
•  Conducted additional  •  Penola saw early success  •  A biodiversity survey in 
flora and fauna surveys,  from the wetland  2019 by a local university 
woody weed control, and  restoration, as indicator  found endangered species 
mosaic burning (which can  species (including the  were thriving at the site 
help prevent catastrophic  Brolga crane) were seen   after the burn.
fire events and burns at a  at the sites.
lower temperature). •  Mosaic burning approach 
•  Ran a biological  helped to restore 
assessment of the native  ecosystem function by 
2020
reserves and wetlands to  preserving vegetation 
guide restoration activities  structures and shelter and 
across the asset; the  foraging habitat. •  Woody weed control has 
assessment identified 14  •  A subsequent flora survey,  been undertaken targeting 
wetlands that have high  conducted by a local not- four species.
conservation value. for-profit organisation, 
found positive effects from 
the burn.
Specialists recommended that the next ecological burn take place in 2022. 
Overall, Penola’s long-term environmental projects have had significant impacts 
on the local flora, fauna, and ecosystem services at the site. 
34 Investment ESG and Impact Report New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report
Production Land Use
New Forests manages investments  an investment in a sustainable rubber  in the US that includes regenerated 
that include a range of forest  plantation and areas within large  and semi-natural forests. As of 
types used for commercial timber  forestry estates that are dedicated  31 December 2020, New Forests 
production. While most of the  to agricultural production (primarily  manages investments incorporating 
investments we manage are for  wheat and canola). New Forests also  754,124 hectares of certified forests.
timber production, we also manage  has a growing investment program 
Production Land Use Areas (hectares) 
US Carbon   All Funds 
ANZFF ANZFF2 ANZFF3 TAFF Forestry (sum)
Certified Area 255,302 242,133 40,089 139,324 77,276 754,124
Natural and/or Semi-
natural Production 
Forest Area (net) 2,033 0 0 0 39,797 67,768
Planted or 
Regenerated 
Production Forest 
Area (net) 110,675 136,449 31,141 38,783 30,534 347,582
Agricultural  
Land (net) 16,629 4,163 0 0 0 20,792
Roading within  
Landscape Planning
In December 2020, ANZFF3 
acquired Summer Hills, a property 
located between two other assets 
already owned by New Forests’ 
funds in the Wellington region of 
New Zealand. Through aggregating 
the management of these small 
but contiguous plantation forests, 
treating them as a larger, cohesive 
forest unit, less roading will be 
required to harvest the tree crop. 
Less road construction and fewer 
skid sites in the forests are expected 
to result in reduced erosion and 
consequently less run-off into the 
adjacent Wainuioru River, leading 
to net environmental benefits for 
the region and catchment. Further, 
these synergies are expected to 
lead to mutual commercial benefit 
for the respective funds through 
reduced roading and skid site 
construction costs.
New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report Investment ESG and Impact Report 35
Land Use Change
Land use change is a critical societal  Land use change must be managed  •  Commercial Reforestation – 
concern as degradation and loss  responsibly and consider the  Replanting and new planting 
of natural ecosystems present  balance of environmental, social,  areas, established with the 
negative environmental impacts  and economic values of the land and  intention of management as 
and can diminish social or cultural  proposed changes with stakeholder  production forest.6
values associated with the land.  concerns such as biodiversity 
•  Environmental Plantings and 
New Forests is committed to a “no  safeguards, access to resources,   Reforestation – Areas that are 
deforestation” approach, which  and productive capacity of forests  (re)forested/(re)planted for 
we seek to execute through our  and land. conservation management.
adherence to forest certification  
and responsible forestry.  Keeping in mind these values,   •  Reversion Area – Areas that are 
New Forests engages primarily in  reverted from forestry plantations 
three types of land use change: back to previous agricultural  
land uses.
Land Use Change Areas (hectares) 
US Carbon   All Funds 
ANZFF ANZFF2 ANZFF3 TAFF Forestry (sum)
Commercial 
Reforestation Area7 11,301 7,555 1,443 1,450 500 22,249
Environmental 
Plantings/
Reforestation Area 84 121 0 233 0 428
Reversion Area 4,215 7,730 0 153 568 12,666
Social Land Use
New Forests encounters important  New Forests aims to support and  Social land use values and rights 
social land use values in all the  uphold customary rights through  can be important components of 
regions in which we operate;  applying the best practices of the  investment strategy, including for 
however, respecting these rights  FSC Principles and Criteria and the  the development of partnerships 
is often most important when  IFC Performance Standards, as  and investment structures, as well as 
considering Indigenous Peoples  applicable. In addition, we seek to be  influencing ongoing management.
and local communities who may be  an active and engaged investor that 
marginalised from poor governance  contributes to advancing discussions 
of land tenure and rights.  around land tenure, rights, and social 
land use needs. 
6  Note that in New Forests’ SLI metrics, for simplicity we do not distinguish between afforestation and reforestation. Afforestation typically refers 
to the establishment of forest on lands that were not previously forest. Reforestation refers to the re-establishment of forests on lands that have 
previously been forest. In our SLI metrics, reforestation includes all planting of trees where forest cover is anticipated; we distinguish between (a) 
commercial reforestation, which is typically intended to include commercial timber production and also includes replanting areas after harvest and 
(b) environmental reforestation, which is typically not intended for commercial timber production
7  Note this area includes both replanting after harvest and planting of areas that were previously not forest, such as bare and degraded land.
36 Investment ESG and Impact Report New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report
COVID-19 Challenges for  
Social Land Use Projects
While New Forests, our property managers, and our 
investee companies endeavoured to manage through 
COVID-19-related challenges, the impact on community 
and stakeholder engagement priorities has been 
significant. Restrictions on travel and social gatherings 
impeded key initiatives in the TAFF portfolio.
•  At Mekong Timber Plantations in Laos, recruitment 
plans for the Mekong Smallholder Development 
Program were paused due to restrictions on 
convening group consultations and information 
sessions. Fortunately, the local health measures 
implemented have maintained low levels of COVID-19 
prevalence in Laos. Recruitment is anticipated to 
ramp up as community meetings and engagement 
opportunities allow in 2021.
•  In Sabah, Malaysia, at Acacia Forest Industries (AFI), 
local impacts from the Controlled Movement Order 
of the Malaysian Government negatively affected 
some individuals and communities as employment 
and livelihoods suffered. AFI provided assistance 
packages of foods and other goods to impacted 
local households. However, the company also had 
to delay planned initiatives such as outreach on its 
benefit sharing scheme whereby local communities 
can participate in shared land use projects with the 
company.
•  Hutan Ketapang Industri in West Kalimantan, 
Indonesia was in process to interpret and then 
implement revisions to the Indonesian forestry 
regulations for tanaman kehidupan, or livelihoods 
plantings; however, progress was hindered by the 
company’s inability to conduct face-to-face meetings 
with government or to hold community meetings to 
discuss the revised regulations and implications for its 
planned program.
New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report Investment ESG and Impact Report 37
Ecosystem Services 
Ecosystem services are the  activities may significantly influence  The increasing pricing of ecosystem 
benefits we all receive from natural  outcomes related to Carbon and  services, through both regulatory 
ecosystems; they form an important  Climate, Biodiversity, Water, and  and voluntary means, presents risks 
component of our planet’s “natural  Recreation and Cultural Services.  and opportunities for investors. 
capital.” New Forests considers  We view these as the most relevant  New Forests aims to position our 
ecosystem services across the  ecosystem services supported by  investment strategies and assets 
GIIN’s IRIS+8 classifications as  investments we manage, noting that  to capture financial value, where 
depicted in the graphic below.  factors related to other ecosystem  possible, through emerging and 
While these four classifications of  services are also covered in other  growing markets for ecosystem 
provisioning, regulating, supporting,  areas of the SLI framework (e.g.,  services.
and cultural services are all material  timber production as a provisioning 
to a range of stakeholders, our  service is covered in the Productivity 
SLI framework focuses on areas  section). 
where forestry management 
Types of ecosystem services provided by investments managed by New Forests
Provisioning   Regulating   Supporting   Cultural  
Values/Services:  Values/Services:  Values/Services:  Values/Services: 
•  Biological raw materials •  Air quality maintenance •  Habitat •  Recreation
•  Biomass fuel •  Climate regulation •  Nutrient cycling •  Ethical and  
•  Freshwater •  Water timing   •  Primary production spiritual values
and flows regulation •  Water cycling •  Educational and 
•  Erosion control inspirational values
•  Soil quality 
maintenance
•  Pest mitigation
•  Pollination
•  Natural hazard 
mitigation
•  Water purification  
and waste treatment
•  Disease mitigation
8  GIIN IRIS (2020). IRIS, 2020. Conservation Priority Characteristics (PD9009). v5.1.
38 Investment ESG and Impact Report New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report
Biodiversity 
Biodiversity refers to the diversity of living 
organisms on earth. Biodiversity management 
is incorporated in third-party certification 
schemes and standards, such as through the 
HCV approach required for FSC certification 
and the Critical Habitat requirements of the IFC 
Performance Standards. The principles, criteria, 
New Forests is a founding signatory to the Finance 
and requirements of these systems together with 
for Biodiversity Pledge, which formalises our 
legal and regulatory requirements form minimum 
commitment to advance conservation priorities 
standards for managing biodiversity across our 
through 2024. New Forests will continue to 
investments. Through the SLI framework, New 
collaborate to advance biodiversity, engage with 
Forests encourages the inclusion of biodiversity-
portfolio companies to develop relevant projects, 
positive activities at every asset. Examples across 
assess our impact, set targets, and report on our 
the categories of Conservation Programs,  
progress. Learn more about New Forests’ leadership 
Habitat Improvement and Restoration, and 
in our Biodiversity Primer. 
Species-focused Research are provided in the 
table below.
Conservation Programs Habitat Improvement or Restoration Species-focused Research
•  Bird monitoring program;  •  Restoring aspen meadow areas as  •  Orangutan population monitoring 
partnership with non-profit   elk habitat (United States) and habitat studies (Indonesia)
(Australia) •  Wetland ecosystem restoration  •  Tasmanian devil facial tumour 
•  Conservation covenants   and revegetation (Australia) research (Australia)
(New Zealand) •  Reduce weed infestation on  •  Wedge-tailed eagle tracking 
•  Securing conservation easements  riparian zones (Australia) (Australia)
in priority areas (United States) •  Native species restoration, e.g.,  •  Giant freshwater crayfish 
Mountain Totara (New Zealand) management (Australia)
•  Koala management and surveys 
(Australia)
Conservation Management Activities (% of total) 
US Carbon   All Assets  
ANZFF ANZFF2 ANZFF3 TAFF Forestry (average)
Conservation Programs 
in Operation 100 63 100 100 100 93
Habitat Improvement or 
Restoration Programs 100 89 100 100 100 98
Species-focused 
Research or 
Conservation Programs 75 63 67 67 100 74
HCV Management Plans 
in Place 100 89 100 100 100 98
The data above reflects the percentage of assets (by number of assets, not by value or size) that have specific types of conservation programs and plans 
in place. As assets are onboarded into New Forests’ management approach, biodiversity management plans and programs typically develop over time. 
Therefore, it is not uncommon that more recent investments do not have conservation programs, HCV plans, species research and conservation, or habitat 
improvement and restoration programs in place. Furthermore, not all types of programs may be suitable for every investment.
New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report Investment ESG and Impact Report 39
Sun Bear Conservation at  
PT Hutan Ketapang Industri
New Forests’ managed investment in West 
Kalimantan, Indonesia, Hutan Ketapang Industri 
(HKI), has been conducting sun bear surveys since 
2017. Sun bears are a vulnerable species according 
to the International Union for Conservation of 
Nature (IUCN); habitat loss and poaching are 
the key drivers of species decline. However, the 
secretive nature of sun bears makes understanding 
their population difficult. Therefore, HKI’s studies 
are critical knowledge-gathering opportunities to 
help preserve sun bear populations.
The 2017 study measured climate conditions, 
geology, and flora and fauna to predict if the area 
could support a sun bear population, and local 
patterns of human use and tenure to determine 
potential stressors on the animals. The survey 
found traces and signs of sun bears, such as 
scratch marks on trees and nests, indicating there 
was a resident population. HKI now supports 
annual sun bear surveys that build on these 
preliminary findings.
In January 2020, a rescued sun bear was released 
into HKI’s sun bear corridor by a local wildlife 
department. HKI was selected because it is the 
only area in West Kalimantan where targeted sun 
bear studies and ongoing monitoring have taken 
place. This was an excellent result of the program 
and demonstrates the ongoing collaboration 
between HKI and local agencies.
In November 2020, six researchers spent several 
days conducting surveys and remeasuring the 
geophysical metrics. The team found a higher 
number of sun bear signs than in 2017, 2018, or 
2019, perhaps indicating the area is better suited 
to the resident population. However, disturbances 
from fire, cultivation, and illegal logging remain 
issues. The team at HKI installed signs marking sun 
bear corridors to decrease human activity in those 
areas and restored areas with a mix of production 
crops and enrichment plants, such as fruit trees, to 
enhance the landscape. The team paid particular 
attention to riverbank restoration, as these are 
important water sources and pathways for sun 
bears. Ongoing monitoring at HKI will continue 
to provide insights as to how these restoration 
activities support a better habitat for sun bears.
40 Investment ESG and Impact Report New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report
Carbon and Climate
Throughout New Forests’ investment  In the United States, through Forest  Under the SLI framework and aligned 
programs, we pursue a range  Carbon Partners, we work with third- with the TCFD recommendations, 
of forest-climate solutions, both  party landowners, such as Native  New Forests reports on the climate 
through dedicated climate strategies  American tribes and family forest  impacts of our investments. In our 
and within broader investment  owners, to develop improved forest  efforts for continual improvement in 
mandates. In Australia, New Zealand,  management (IFM) carbon offset  this reporting, New Forests includes 
and Southeast Asia, New Forests  projects. Our US Carbon Forestry  an estimate of the long-term carbon 
participates in voluntary and  program also implements IFM  storage of the harvested wood 
regulatory carbon markets to add  carbon projects on investor-owned  products sold from its investments 
value to core forestry investments,  production forests, combining the  during the year. Reporting now 
principally through extending  timber and carbon values of forests  also includes Scope 1 and 2 GHG 
rotation lengths, changing from  for improved climate outcomes and  emissions associated with each 
shorter to longer rotations, and  financial returns. investment; New Forests intends to 
reforestation-based greenfield  add Scope 3 GHG emissions in future 
investments.  reporting.
US Carbon   All Funds 
ANZFF ANZFF2 ANZFF3 TAFF Forestry FCP (sum)
Carbon Emissions and Removals
Carbon stock in 
production forest 
(thousand tCO e)9     60,653      55,806      33,548   3,535  15,776  N/A 169,318 
2
Carbon stock 
associated  
with purchased/
sold assets 
(thousand tCO e)             –                       –            32,093  –    –    N/A     32,092 
2
Annual carbon 
stock change in 
production forest 
(thousand tCO e)10             (449)           2,153                  (4)      546 (237)      N/A 2,008
2
Annual carbon 
stock change  
in production                                                                         
forest (%) (1) 4  (0.3)                18  (1)                  N/A 1
Harvested  
wood products – 
long-term  
carbon storage 
(thousand tCO e) 145 142 117 2 38 N/A 444
2
Scope 1 and 2 
GHG emissions 
(thousand tCO e) 23 4 0.6 4.5 0.034 N/A 31.7
2
Carbon Projects
Number of  
carbon projects 1 6 2 0 3 18 31
Number of carbon 
offsets issued 0 103,437 33,001 0 990,783 6,408,507 7,535,728
9  Reflects best estimates of carbon storage at the end of the reporting period. Note that for some assets, adjustments to carbon storage may have 
been made from prior years’ reporting for factors related to carbon pools, boundaries, and/or changes in inventory and forest resource data.
10  Reflects best estimates of annual carbon flux due to harvest, growth, mortality, and natural processes. Does not include factors related to carbon 
pools, boundaries, and/or changes in inventory and forest resource data. These factors are recorded separately.
New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report Investment ESG and Impact Report 41
As noted, New Forests will work  New Forests recognises that a range  We believe NCS is a vital bridging 
toward reporting GHG inventories  of stakeholders are concerned about  strategy to a low-carbon and 
in alignment with the GHG Protocol  how carbon credits generated by  sustainable future and that the use of 
and intends to pilot the forthcoming  forestry activities will be used by  NCS should complement, rather than 
carbon removals and land use  companies in claiming emission  displace, other climate ambitions 
guidance. Throughout 2020, New  reductions and carbon neutrality.  such as direct emissions reductions. 
Forests supported the development  These concerns have heightened  In particular, New Forests believes 
of improved GHG reporting for  over the past year with growing net  the biodiversity and community 
forestry and land use activities  zero commitments by companies  benefits associated with NCS must 
within the context of the GHG  and announcements of intentions  be materially valued and that long-
Protocol and its working group  to invest heavily in nature-based  term and commercially sustainable 
to develop a Carbon Removals  climate solutions activities. New  financing must be directed 
Standard. While this new standard  Forests supports the NCS Alliance  toward a range of NCS activities, 
remains in development, New  and other organisations that are  including forest conservation and 
Forests anticipates it will enhance  building a knowledge base and  reforestation.
standardisation of GHG reporting in  developing principles for the 
forestry and land use investments.  responsible use of natural climate 
This is an important step toward  solutions and carbon offsets as part 
investors and corporations including  of long-term climate action. 
forestry and land use in their net 
zero targets.
42 Investment ESG and Impact Report New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report
Water
Healthy aquatic systems are one of  Such water management addresses  Water management is highly location 
the key elements of a sustainable  the key issues of water quality  specific, and New Forests finds that 
and thriving landscape. The world’s  and water quantity or availability  the context of water management, 
forests also play critical roles in  for other users. As part of forest  including regulatory requirements, 
provisioning drinking water; one- management certification, all forests  risks, and opportunities, is highly 
third of the world’s largest cities  are managed to avoid and minimise  variable across the investments  
obtain a significant portion of their  any disruption to water quality and  we manage.
drinking water from well-managed  quantity. Beyond this, managing 
natural areas.11 New Forests is  forests in a way that is optimised 
committed to responsible water  for local conditions, such as soil 
management and conservation  and terrain, supports functioning 
across our managed assets to  ecosystems that can provide reliable, 
ensure associated ecosystems and  high-quality water resources. 
communities are supported. 
Wading into Water  
Management in New Zealand
At the Blenheim and Marberry Estates on New 
Zealand’s South Island, New Forests’ property 
manager M&R Forestland Management Ltd 
undertakes freshwater monitoring to ensure the 
streams that run through the plantations it manages 
are healthy. They measure nitrogen and phosphorus 
levels as water quality indicators. They also 
count macroinvertebrates present in the streams, 
including mayflies, stoneflies, beetles, snails, 
flatworms, and other species. The distribution 
of these populations can show how viable and 
resilient the streams are to temperature changes 
and sediment increases, among other factors. 
Across both properties, there was only one stream 
that had moderate organic pollution and nutrient 
enrichment; all the others were pristine. To address 
this, M&R Forestland Management Ltd is working 
to improve the riparian margin alongside the 
stream in the area it manages. They also work with 
communities in the following downstream projects:
•  Partnering with the Avon Provide Catchment 
Community Group to support stream monitoring 
and educational programming on freshwater 
management for local farmers.
•  Collaborating with the Marlborough District 
Council to install sediment plates in the Kaiuma 
Bay estuary; these will be regularly monitored 
to assess the sediment accumulation over the 
next 10 years. Additional monitoring will be done 
when harvesting operations take place. Another 
site will also be added downstream of farmland 
and harvest activities to improve the study.
11  Learn more in Dudley, Nigel; Stolton, Sue. 2003. Running Pure: The Importance of Forest Protected Areas to Drinking Water. World Bank/WWF 
Alliance for Forest Conservation and Sustainable Use. © World Bank. https://openknowledge.worldbank.org/handle/10986/15006 License: CC BY 
3.0 IGO.
New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report Investment ESG and Impact Report 43
Recreation and Cultural Services
Forests provide important  values may generate modest  managed, and in some cases, access 
recreational opportunities and can  ancillary revenue, while in other  is restricted due to risks, such as 
include features and sites of cultural  cases, these ecosystem services  wildfire and active operations. The 
significance. Ensuring equitable  are made available as part of the  table below summarises the types 
access to forests and maintaining  commitment of forest managers to  of recreation and cultural services 
these values must be carefully  contribute to local communities and  provided in each of New Forests’ 
considered in forest management  users. Access to working forests and  funds.
planning. In some cases, these  conservation areas must be carefully 
US Carbon  
ANZFF ANZFF2 ANZFF3 TAFF Forestry
Hiking, Biking, Horseriding Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
Motorised Vehicles Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
Camping No No No Yes Yes
Hunting No Yes Yes No Yes
Access to Sites of Religious  
or Cultural Importance Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
Nature Viewing and Tourism Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
The table above indicates whether each type of recreation and/or cultural service is provided by at least one asset of a given fund. It does not indicate that 
the service is provided by all assets of a fund.
44 Investment ESG and Impact Report New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report
Shared Prosperity
New Forests seeks to support  lenses of Community Development,  complementary to, sustainable forest 
thriving communities in the areas in  Employment and Livelihoods, and  management in the regions in which 
which we invest and to ensure that  Industry and Supply Chains.  we operate. 
the way we manage investments 
also provides benefits to the people  Community Development Where possible, New Forests aims 
who live and work in or around New  to support community development 
Forests’ managed investments.  New Forests seeks to promote  through investment strategies that 
the systematic identification of  incorporate benefits agreements or 
Our SLI framework highlights  opportunities to support community  shared prosperity objectives into 
Shared Prosperity through the  objectives that align with, or are  core investment activities.
Smallholders and Outgrowers12 (individuals) 
US Carbon   All Funds 
ANZFF ANZFF2 ANZFF3 TAFF Forestry (sum)
0 260 0 72 0 332
Re-matriating Land  
to the Yurok Tribe
New Forests has worked with the Yurok Tribe 
for a decade. The Yurok Tribe, which has over 
6,300 members and manages over 50,000 
acres of land along the Klamath River, are 
currently the largest Tribe in California. In 2011, 
New Forests and the Yurok Tribe co-developed 
the first forest carbon project for California’s 
emissions trading system. In 2018, New Forests 
started collaborating with the Yurok Tribe 
and the Trust for Public Land (TPL) to return 
2,424 acres of culturally and ecologically 
important land to the Tribe in perpetuity. The 
land, currently owned by one of New Forests’ 
forestry funds, is located within the political 
boundaries of the Yurok Reservation, along 
Ke’pel Creek, and is an important part of 
the Klamath River watershed that provides 
drinking water to the Yurok Tribe and supports 
wildlife habitat. The collaboration with TPL 
has assisted the Yurok Tribe in accessing the 
funds from the California Natural Resources 
Agency to finance the purchase. The sale 
was significantly progressed in 2020 and is 
expected to complete during the first half of 
2021. Acquiring this additional land from New 
Forests supports the Yurok Tribe’s efforts to 
reclaim their ancestral territory. Historically, 
the Yurok maintained lands extending along 
the Pacific coast, from north of modern-day 
Klamath to Mendocino.
12  Generally, smallholders have land holdings less than 10 hectares, while outgrowers enter into contracts with companies to grow and sell products, 
such as trees, on small parcels of personal land.
New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report Investment ESG and Impact Report 45
Employment and Livelihoods
Forestry investment supports  is an essential component of  In total, more than 6,020 people 
employment opportunities, mostly  responsible investment and,  were involved in our investment 
in rural and regional areas where  furthermore, can establish the basis  operations in 2020, of which more 
primary industries are major  for promoting beneficial social  than 3,140 were direct permanent 
components of local economies.   impacts through employment  employees of the operating 
The table below reports on  and livelihoods initiatives. Forest  portfolio companies; the remainder 
employment related to the  management certification and the  were subcontracted or temporary 
operational management of  IFC Performance Standards include  employees. The percentage of 
investments managed by New  criteria on workers’ rights, and as  employees that were female was 
Forests and does not include  of 2021, New Forests’ RI Policy and  23% across all funds. Since 2018, 
New Forests’ staff. New Forests  SEMS include explicit commitments  the number of female employees 
believes that upholding the  to the core conventions of the ILO  across all funds has increased by 8 
fundamental rights of workers  and to promoting a living wage.  percentage points.
US Carbon   All Funds 
ANZFF ANZFF2 ANZFF3 TAFF Forestry (sum)
Total Employees 632 138 35 2,324 18 3,147
Female Employees 89 38 3 593 8 731
Temporary/Contract 
Workers 969 637 322 884 64 2,876
Total Employees and 
Workers 1,600 774 357 3,208 82 6,021
46 Investment ESG and Impact Report New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report
Ending Modern Slavery and Ensuring  
Safe Work with Integrity 
The forestry sector contributes to the employment and economic growth 
of both developed and emerging economies. Providing a healthy and safe 
working environment and respecting human rights are central to advancing 
sustainability within the sector. 
Unfortunately, the forestry sector has a high risk of modern slavery, which 
includes the exploitation of individuals or people for personal or commercial 
gain. New Forests views our modern slavery risk program as a continual effort, 
and we seek to address risks in our direct operations as well as in the investment 
portfolios we manage, where risks are deemed more severe due to the nature of 
work and the involvement of a significant contracted/subcontracted workforce. 
New Forests adheres to the use of third-party standards and systems, such as 
FSC, PEFC, and the IFC PS, that prohibit modern slavery and assist with the 
identification of risks of modern slavery. In addition, we are strengthening and 
formalising a commitment, as a sustainable business and responsible investor,  
to ending modern slavery. Actions taken in 2020 include:
•  Advanced our modern slavery risk management and reporting program in 
compliance with the Commonwealth Modern Slavery Act. As of March 2021, 
our first modern slavery statement has been published and is available on  
our website. 
•  Launched supplier questionnaires on modern slavery to assess risks among 
significant suppliers.
•  Undertook development of a Supplier Code and Third-party Due  
Diligence Procedure.
•  Engaged with portfolio companies that also publish modern slavery 
statements and/or policies.
•  Supported direct action in portfolio companies, such as Mekong Timber 
Plantations’ child rights program, which addresses the underlying issues  
that drive child labour in the region. 
New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report Investment ESG and Impact Report 47
Industry and Supply Chains 
Shared prosperity initiatives may  Skills development and training is  New Forests seeks to drive health 
also come through industry and  an increasing focus for the forest  and safety improvements by setting 
supply chain collaboration and  industry as new technologies come  an expectation of best practice, 
innovation. Creating a more vibrant,  into use, changing the way we grow,  monitoring safety performance on 
resilient forest products value  harvest, and process wood products.  a regular basis, keeping a constant 
chain can benefit the investments  Work safety training remains an  focus on continual improvement, 
we manage by strengthening  important focus that goes hand in  and supporting intervention when 
markets, enhancing reputations, and  hand with skills development and  needed. Safety is discussed in the 
positioning forestry as a key industry  leadership training.  Risk Management section of this 
in sustainable development and  report.
communities. 
Capacity Development to Support SME Contractors 
In the first half of 2020, two TAFF portfolio companies, Acacia Forest 
Industries (AFI) in Malaysia and Mekong Timber Plantations (MTP) in Laos, 
conducted training programs for forestry and plantation contract workers 
who were recruited from the surrounding communities for capacity 
building and to further encourage local hiring. 
The program was supported by the Dutch development bank, FMO. New 
Forests engaged the Centre for the Modernisation of Operations (CMO) to 
conduct the contractor training at both companies. For example, at AFI, 
over the course of seven weeks, 31 participants engaged in sessions focused 
on finance and cost management analysis, forest operations management, 
environmental management, forest certification and compliance, productivity 
and cost operations management, silvicultural operations management, and 
human resource management. These sessions were designed to develop 
the contractors’ business skills and expertise, which is expected to enhance 
capabilities for work opportunities and support community development. 
New Forests believes these trainings are additive to AFI and MTP’s ongoing 
employee engagement and training and looks forward to learning more 
about related outcomes. 
48 Investment ESG and Impact Report New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report
Risk Management
Through risk management,  Of course, risk management is a  in an integrated fashion. The table 
New Forests seeks to create  broad governance concern, and  below shows the percentage of 
more resilient, profitable, and  New Forests seeks to ensure that  investments in each fund that have 
sustainable investments. Our risk  risk management approaches in  operating-level Risk Management 
framework starts with our corporate  the investments we manage are  Systems in place that cover all these 
management of business risks  appropriate to the nature and scale  important aspects. New Forests 
and flows through to the culture  of the risks facing each investment,  believes it is vital to build on our 
of risk management we bring to  and that they align with the risk  current risk practices to achieve high 
our management of funds and  tolerance established by New  social and environmental goals. 
investments.  Forests. 
All investments are covered by New 
Integrating risk management  Forests’ Enterprise Risk Management 
Risk Management Systems
throughout the commercial,  Framework. Through this framework, 
environmental, social, and  Risk management is a critical enabler  risk registers are developed for each 
operational facets of our funds  to successful investments. New  investment with the involvement 
under management is central to our  Forests’ SLI indicators track the  of property managers or investees, 
investment management approach.  quality and nature of both risk and  New Forests’ operations staff, and 
Within the Risk Management theme,  occupational, health, and safety  New Forests’ risk and compliance 
our SLI framework focuses on Risk  (OHS) systems in place for property  team. These investment-level risk 
Management Systems and Safety.  managers and investees. In terms  registers inform fund-level registers, 
of risk management systems, we  which are reviewed by New Forests’ 
encourage the use of comprehensive  Management Committees on a 
systems that cover commercial,  regular basis to support asset 
operational, ESG, and safety issues  management functions.
Comprehensive Risk Management Systems (%) 
US Carbon   All Funds 
ANZFF ANZFF2 ANZFF3 TAFF Forestry (average)
100 100 100 100 100 100
Table indicates the percentage of investments within each fund that have comprehensive risk management systems covering commercial, operational, 
ESG, and safety issues.
New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report Investment ESG and Impact Report 49
Weathering the Storm –  
Learning from the Past at Aratu
The East Coast region of New Zealand’s North  One of the ten responsible companies was Hikurangi 
Island has historically experienced high intensity  Forest Farms Ltd, a privately owned 35,000-hectare 
rainfall events. In June 2018, prior to New Forests’  plantation asset, which was subsequently acquired by 
investment in the area, flood waters from a storm  a New Forests managed investment group in July 2019 
event mobilised substantial woody debris from  and rebranded as Aratu Forests Ltd. 
harvested plantations in the region, causing damage 
One of New Forests’ asset management focus areas 
to waterways, beaches, and rural property. 
is the preparation for and mitigation of rising acute 
Poor forestry practices, which were not compliant with  physical climate change impacts. To better address 
local regulation, exacerbated the volume of debris  extreme weather events, Aratu implemented the 
that then created problems for the environment,  following changes:
neighbouring landowners, and local communities. 
1 2 3 4 5
Adopted  Ensured  Met with other  Sought external  In 2020, 
harvesting and  compliance with  forest managers  expert advice  appointed 
road practices  best practice  across New  on forestry  a General 
that mitigate  guidelines and  Zealand to  operations  Manager of 
potential storm  regulatory  identify best  and disaster  Operations and 
impacts  frameworks  practice  management  a Community 
solutions  planning Liaison Manager
Another East Coast flood event in July 2020 tested the efficacy of Aratu’s operational changes, 
bringing woody debris onto local waterways and beaches. By working with the community and 
government stakeholders, Aratu prioritised response activities that best met the communities’ needs.
Post June 2018  To address the  Aratu re- Woody debris  No prosecutable 
changes in  debris present,  allocated key  was cleaned  resource 
roading and  Aratu worked  contracting  up from the  consent 
harvesting  with local  companies and  beach safely and  breaches were 
practices led to  community  their machinery  promptly issued following 
a demonstrable  and industry  to the beach to  the 2020 storm
reduction in  stakeholders to  remove debris
mobilised  coordinate an 
woody debris industry-funded 
beach clean-up
The efforts to refine crisis preparation and response practices is ongoing, and Aratu 
continues to work to reduce environmental impacts from storm events and collaborate 
with the local government and community to ensure that its practices and disaster 
response plans reflect their expectations. There remains much to be done, but New 
Forests is encouraged by the progress to date and the support of local stakeholders.
50 Investment ESG and Impact Report New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report
Safety
Ensuring the health and safety of all  and promotes implementation of  New Forests monitors key safety 
workers is a primary concern across  best practice in health and safety  data, and property managers 
the forest sector. We recognise  as we strive toward having a “safety  and portfolio companies set 
that employees of third-party  first” culture across our business  safety targets appropriate to their 
property managers, investees, and  and managed portfolio. We work to  operations. As part of regular 
contractors face day-to-day risks in  ensure that occupational health and  monthly and quarterly reporting, 
forestry operations, transport, and  safety are a consistent focus in asset  standardised metrics are reported.
processing. New Forests encourages  management and governance.
Safety and Injury Frequency Rates (average per 1 million hours worked) 
US Carbon   All Funds 
ANZFF ANZFF2 ANZFF3 TAFF Forestry (average)
Lost Time Injury 
Frequency Rate 
(LTIFR) 7 8 2 3.9 0 43
Medical Treatment 
Injury Frequency 
Rate (MTIFR) 42 106 8 8.5 96 52
New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report Investment ESG and Impact Report 51
Acacia Forest Industries Becomes 
First ISO 45001 Certified Forestry 
Company in Malaysia 
New Forests actively manages investments to promote 
a high level of Occupational Health & Safety (OHS) 
performance. As part of a series of a policy updates, 
Acacia Forest Industries (AFI) in Malaysia went through 
a two-year process to create and update its OHS 
systems and management approaches in order to 
protect staff, contractors, and surrounding community 
members. AFI sought a robust systems-based approach, 
selecting the ISO 45001: 2018 standard as the most 
appropriate management system given its status as a 
global benchmark for OHS best practice. 
An independent consultant was engaged to conduct 
a pre-certification audit to identify gaps in AFI OHS 
management and provide recommendations for 
strengthening its systems and procedures. After 
addressing identified gaps, AFI achieved certification 
in March 2020, becoming the first plantation forestry 
company in Malaysia to achieve this standard.  
New Forests and AFI management first implemented 
a top-down approach in revamping the OHS system, 
initially focusing on clear policies and principles to 
disseminate to staff, articulating the objectives of the 
company in instilling a strong safety culture. An OHS 
Manual was developed comprising 20 work instructions 
and procedural documents that cover critical avoidance 
procedures (e.g., requirements for training, personal 
protective equipment, electrical), job-specific safety 
risks and requirements (e.g., procedures for working 
with heavy machinery, working from heights, harvesting, 
and log-yard activities), accident response mechanisms 
(e.g., emergency preparedness and response), and safety 
monitoring and inspection protocols. AFI documented 
a socialisation strategy, with induction and refresher 
training implemented, quarterly safety meetings used as 
a feedback mechanism, routine monitoring and reporting 
standards, and annual review of the system conducted 
with consideration of continuous improvement.
52 Investment ESG and Impact Report New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report
Governance
New Forests’ governance framework  Strategic Planning Systems and Policies
is driven by the belief that good 
governance creates more valuable  New Forests employs an annual  Forest certification and verifiable 
businesses. Our own corporate  strategic planning cycle for  standards are important tools for 
governance informs the approach we  every investment we manage.  responsible investment in the forest 
bring to the investments we manage,  The strategic planning process is  and land use sector. All investments 
with New Forests’ legal, risk,  guided by New Forests’ central  managed by New Forests are 
compliance, and company secretary  commitments to risk management  required to obtain certification. In 
teams supporting asset management  and impact management, which lay  addition to providing standards, 
activities. Our SLI framework focuses  a foundation to improve operational  reputable certification programs 
on three areas of governance that  performance. During 2020, New  offer credible assurance for both 
support New Forests’ efforts to  Forests’ team updated the strategic  timber and wood product markets 
foster accountability and alignment  planning process to include climate  and stakeholders. New Forests’ 
with strategic objectives for each  considerations and to ensure that  SEMS guidance on the use of 
investment: Strategic Planning,  ESG and impact considerations  standards was updated as part of 
Systems and Policies (including  were embedded within the  the 2020 revision, which introduced 
forest certification), and Board/ planning process. This is designed  Principles for certification across 
Operational Governance.  to ensure a consistent approach  asset types, as outlined on the right.
to asset management across our 
New Forests’ preferred certification 
investment programs while allowing 
for forestry investments is the 
for customisation to investment 
Forest Stewardship Council 
characteristics and operating 
(FSC)*, but it also recognises the 
environment.
Programme for Endorsement of 
Forest Certification Systems (PEFC) 
as a robust alternative. In emerging 
markets, New Forests applies the IFC 
Performance Standards.
22 assets
9 assets dual certified  
to both FSC and PEFC
certified to FSC and/or PEFC
6,451,902 tonnes timber produced  
from certified assets
In 2020, the TAFF portfolio achieved  775,132 
100% FSC certification
hectares certified 
A significant milestone for the fund and sector
*FSC is not responsible for and does not endorse any financial claims on returns on investments.
New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report Investment ESG and Impact Report 53
New Forests’ Sustainable Forestry and Land Use Principles guide our approach to ESG and impact 
management and relate to the types of certifications we use.
1 3 6
New Forests and all  New Forests provides a living  New Forests supports the 
investments we manage   wage across its business and  generation of multiple 
must comply with all laws   all operations that it directly  benefits, including economic, 
and regulations. controls while promoting a  environmental, and social from 
living wage in all investments. long-term, sustainable forest 
management for both local and 
broader global communities.
2
4
New Forests requires that the 
ILO core labour conventions  New Forests and all its 
7
are upheld across its business  investments seek to uphold 
and all investments we manage;  Indigenous rights, including  For other assets types, New 
these requirements relate to: the right to Free, Prior, and  Forests’ SEMS identified 
•  Prohibiting modern slavery  Informed Consent. New  additional guidance. 
and other forced labour; Forests is committed to robust 
•  Agricultural assets: New 
stakeholder engagement 
•  Prohibiting child labour,  Forests follows the PRI 
with potentially affected 
including all forms of slavery,  Responsible Investment in 
communities and seeking 
illicit activities, and work that  Farmland guidelines.13 
informed consent for business 
could do harm to the health, 
•  Environmental markets: 
activities.
safety, and/or morals of 
the SEMS outlines that 
children;
offset credits should 
•  Respecting equal rights  be real, additional, and 
regardless of gender, race,  independently verified; 
or religious background; 5 address permanence and 
•  Allowing the formation and  leakage; and do no net harm.
New Forests commits to 
joining of trade unions;
conserving and promoting 
•  Applying all ILO conventions  High Conservation Values 
on occupational health and  (HCVs) and does not tolerate 
safety; and deforestation or conversion of 
•  Combating all kinds of  HCV areas.
corruption.
13  PRI “Responsible Investing in Farmland.” https://www.unpri.org/farmland/responsible-investment-in-farmland/716.article
54 Investment ESG and Impact Report New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report
Board and Operational Governance
As a forestry investor, New Forests’  structure of the investment and its  New Forests also monitors 
governance approach is adaptable  implications for governance and  reportable incidents, timeliness 
to the ownership structure for each  oversight. The indicators reported  of governance and management 
investment and its strategic asset  here include Board Independence  reporting, and employee 
management objectives. In terms of  (only for investments with operating  development and training.
board and operational governance,  company boards), Code of Conduct 
it is important to consider the  (CoC), and Anti-corruption Training. 
Governance Statistics 
US Carbon   All Assets 
ANZFF ANZFF2 ANZFF3 TAFF Forestry (average)
Code of Conduct – Employees
(percent of investments for 
which the CoC applies to all 
employees14) 100 100 100 100 100 100
Code of Conduct – Contractors
(percent of investments for 
which the CoC applies to all 
contractors15) 75 40 67 100 100 76
Code of Conduct – Oversight
(percent of investments for 
which the CoC has senior 
management oversight) 100 100 100 100 100 100
Board Independence 
(percent of directors who are 
independent) 17 13 17 5 20 14
Anti-corruption Training 
(percent of employees trained) 56 46 37 91 0 46
Average Number of 
Governance Meetings  
Held per Fund 4 4 6 4 4 4
Most forestry fund assets in Australia and New Zealand are structured as real-assets investments in managed trusts, where a trustee (Responsible Entity) 
is the owner of the asset and New Forests acts as manager. In these cases, New Forests uses an “Operations Committee” as a proxy for a governance body 
at the investment level. These committees are typically composed of senior staff of the property manager and New Forests and therefore do not have 
independent directors. Where the Australia and New Zealand investments are held by fund-owned vehicles, there is a board of the relevant vehicle.
The US Carbon Forestry investments have also adopted the Operations Committee model but are owned and managed under varying legal entity 
structures that sometimes require a board of directors. In these cases, independent directors may be appointed, typically at clients’ discretion.
The Southeast Asian investments employ a private equity style investment approach, whereby the investment fund takes share ownership in businesses 
that operate forestry assets. In these cases, New Forests appoints directors in accordance with shareholders agreements for each investment.
14  Includes part-time and full-time employees. 
15  Includes contractors, subcontractors, casual, and fixed-term, projects, seasonal, or intermittent work performed.
New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report Investment ESG and Impact Report 55
Improving Governance in New 
Zealand Portfolio Companies 
New Forests prioritises good governance 
practices for all assets and investments it 
manages, as we believe they can improve 
performance, transparency, employment 
outcomes, and disclosures. In 2020, two 
ANZFF3 assets in New Zealand, Wenita Forest 
Products and Aratu Forests Ltd, went through 
governance reviews, including:
•  Dedicated workshops with staff to identify 
governance challenges and opportunities,
•  Revising company policies to streamline 
processes and bring them up to best 
practice, and
•  Introducing structured risk assessments and 
strategic planning procedures.
Additionally, to support company performance, 
Aratu appointed an independent director to 
its board and changed its CEO remuneration 
to be aligned with financial and non-financial 
performance. New Forests also hired a 
dedicated company secretary in New Zealand 
to support asset boards, which will create 
greater standardisation and alignment of 
its managed investments in the country. 
Governance improvements like these are 
important to support long-term stability and 
to develop the organisational capabilities 
that can deliver on E&S risk management and 
the pursuit of ambitious asset management 
objectives. 
56 Advancing Sustainable Landscape Investment New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report
Advancing Sustainable 
Landscape Investment
In the 15 years since New Forests’ establishment, the world has increasingly come to 
understand that business must help deliver solutions to ever-growing threats from 
climate change, biodiversity loss, the growing human population, and rising pressure 
on natural resources.
Throughout 2020, this recognition  the international best practices  with meaningful timelines. For 
became more acute, with the  that are arising in areas such as  New Forests, our opportunity is 
vulnerability of global social,  climate risk disclosure, nature-based  to advance investment strategies 
business, and economic systems  solutions, modern slavery, and  and models that capture the power 
resulting in significant financial  impact investment; we believe we  of forests for carbon removals 
and societal costs alongside the  can contribute our experience while  while also generating other goods, 
COVID-19 pandemic. Despite these  benefiting from collaboration with  services, and benefits for society. 
challenges, we believe there is  peers and experts. 
We hope that our 2020 Sustainability 
building momentum and progress 
Investing in the world’s forests  Report provides meaningful 
towards New Forests’ vision: to see 
and natural infrastructure should  disclosure of the risks and 
forestry as a key sector helping to 
be central to global action to  opportunities we are managing and 
lead the transition to a sustainable 
build back better. Forests provide  furthers knowledge-sharing and 
future. 
natural resources, ecosystem  discourse around the potential for the 
New Forests believes that the way  services and biodiversity, and are a  forestry asset class to be a solution 
in which we invest in and manage  significant source of livelihoods and  to major environmental and social 
assets in forestry, conservation, and  subsistence globally. Furthermore,  challenges. New Forests remains 
land use can contribute to greater  the conservation, restoration  steadfast in our mission to be the 
resilience for the environment and  and sustainable management of  world’s leading forestry investor – 
society. We apply our Sustainable  forests will play an important role  sustainability is at the centre of this 
Landscape Investment approach to  in achieving net zero emissions  effort. We welcome questions, ideas, 
systematically identify ESG risks and  objectives. We appear to be at an  and opportunities for engagement as 
opportunities and to manage for  inflection point where governments,  we look forward.
enhanced outcomes. We also strive  business, and investors are stepping 
to participate in and help develop  up to commit to net zero pathways 
New Forests 2020 Sustainability Report SLI Glossary 57
SLI Glossary 
Productivity
Gross Asset Area The gross area of land including all land and forest title and/or tenure types.
Harvest Volume Volume harvested from the estate.
Certified Harvest Volume Volume harvested from the estate from areas under active forest management certification.
R&D Expenditure Investment and expenditure in forest-related research, extension and development, and education.
Land Use Planning
Environmental Restoration   Area of land managed for environmental restoration. Area included should be managed with a plan for intentional 
Management Area restoration of environmental values through specific management prescriptions.
Environmental Markets   Area listed and/or registered under one or more environmental markets projects, including carbon, mitigation 
Project Area banking, or other.
Permanently Protected Area Area of land under a permanent mechanism for environmental protection and conservation, e.g., conservation 
easement, covenants. The protection mechanism must be legal in perpetuity.
Conservation Zone   Area of land managed for environmental protection and conservation. Includes land subject to legal land use 
or Protected Area restrictions set for the purposes of maintaining biological diversity and natural resources.
Natural Forest and/or   Area of land that is predominantly under natural forms of vegetation and not used for cultivation. This area may 
Remnant Vegetation Area include environments of varying naturalness and condition.
Certified Area Area under third-party sustainability certification and managed on behalf of the investment and/or within certification 
held by the asset manager that includes forest and/or land management practices, e.g., FSC®, PEFC, Organic.
Natural and/or Semi-Natural Production  Area of natural forest and/or semi-natural forest that is managed for timber production. 
Forest Area (net)
Planted or Regenerated   Area of planted plantation and/or regenerated plantation that is managed for timber production. Includes planted 
Production Forest Area (net) forest and area naturally regenerated from planted forests and under timber production regime.
Agricultural Land Area of land primarily used for agricultural production activities. Includes by lessees or share farmers. For the 
avoidance of doubt, does not include agricultural activities undertaken by communities on customary or community 
land in Asia.
Commercial Reforestation Area Area of land planted for commercial forest management, i.e., from unplanted to planted / new establishment and 
including replanted areas.
Environmental Plantings/Reforestation Area Area of land (re)forested/(re)planted for conservation management.
Reversion Area Area of land reverted from forest to non-forest or which has been harvested and will not be replanted to forest cover.
Ecosystem Services
Biodiversity   Active programs in place targeting the conservation or enhancement of biodiversity, including species-specific or 
Conservation Programs habitat initiatives such as an HCV management plan, a program that targets species research or conservation,  
or a program that targets habitat condition improvements and restoration.
Forest Carbon – Productive   Forest carbon stock in production areas of the forest estate.
Area Carbon Storage
Forest Carbon – Annual Change Change in forest carbon stocks as at the end of the financial year compared to the prior financial year. Reported as net 
positive sequestration as a positive number and net emissions as a negative number.
Carbon Projects Number of active carbon projects.
Carbon Offsets Issued Carbon offsets issued during the reporting period.
Recreation and Cultural Services The company/asset provides access for recreation or cultural purposes, such as hiking, biking, horseriding, motorised 
vehicles, camping, hunting, religious or cultural importance, nature viewing, tourism, birdwatching, etc.
Shared Prosperity
Smallholders and Outgrowers Number of participants engaged in outgrower, smallholder, and livelihood planting programs. 
Employees – Female Full-time equivalents of female employees, including part-time and full-time employees.
Employees – Total Full-time equivalents of employees of the external manager, including part-time and full-time employees.
Temporary/Contract Workers Full-time equivalents of temporary employees engaged by the external manager during the reporting period. 
Temporary employees include contractors, subcontractors, and casual, and fixed-term, project-based, seasonal, or 
intermittent work.
Collaboration –   Value (financial) of collaborative industry development initiatives supported by the investment, e.g., industry 
Financial Contribution associations, collaborative research, and best practice development.
Risk Management
Risk Management System Asset has an active risk management system that covers all aspects of the asset, including commercial, environmental, 
and safety.
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate The number of Lost Time Injuries occurring per 1 million hours worked.
Medical Treatment Injury Frequency Rate The number of Medical Treatment Injuries occurring per 1 million hours worked.
Governance
Anti-corruption Training Percent of manager’s employees who have received training on anti-corruption and bribery policies and procedures.
Code of Conduct A Code of Conduct or equivalent policy is in place that applies to all employees, contractors, and/or has senior 
management oversight.
Board or Operational Committee  Percentage of the members of the Board or Operational Committee who are independent.
Independence Percentage
Governance Meetings  Number of Board of Director meetings (for investee companies) or Operations Committee meetings (as applicable) 
held.
As global demand for resources grows,  New Forests has international reach, with offices and 
there is a need to increase productivity while  assets in Australia, New Zealand, Southeast Asia, and 
the US. This gives us a global perspective combined with 
ensuring the conservation of the world’s 
local expertise that allows us to understand and manage 
remaining natural forests. New Forests seeks 
our assets more effectively. Wherever we operate in the 
to create investment strategies that provide  world, our strength lies in our people and their drive to 
lasting solutions to this challenge. Through  make investments that create the best possible outcomes. 
By investing with integrity and transparency we aim to 
responsible management of forests and 
generate strong returns while helping tackle some of the 
other real assets, we create shared benefit 
world’s great sustainability challenges.
for investors and local communities alike. 
To learn more, visit us at www.newforests.com.au  
We believe that meeting the needs of a 
or contact us at info@newforests.com.au.
broad range of stakeholders will provide 
better returns over the long term.
New Forests is part of 
the Certified B Corp 
community, a global 
movement of people using 
business as a force for good
Disclaimer © New Forests 2021. New Forests refers to New Forests Pty Ltd (ACN 114 145 274) and its subsidiaries. 
The information contained in this publication is of a general nature and is intended for discussion purposes only. The information does not constitute 
financial product advice or provide a recommendation to enter into any investment. New Forests Asset Management Pty Limited (ACN 114 545 283) is 
registered with the Australian Securities and Investments Commission and is an Authorised Representative of New Forests Advisory Pty Limited (AFS 
Representative Number 376306). New Forests Inc is registered as an investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended (the 
“Advisers Act”). Registration with the SEC does not imply any specific or certain level of skill or training. New Forests Asia (Singapore) Pte Ltd. Holds a 
Capital markets Services Licence as an Accredited/Institutional Licenced Fund Management Company (A/I LFMC), issued by the Monetary Authority of 
Singapore (“MAS”).