
REPORT ON
Investment  
Sustainability  
and Impact  
Fidelity Asset Management
ESG Investing Team 
Fidelity’s ESG Investing Team is proud to present our Report on Investment 
Sustainability and Impact. As stewards of our customers’ money, we believe 
that integrating a robust environmental, social, and governance (ESG) 
investing component into our research and portfolio management processes 
enhances our ability to identify superior investment opportunities. We focus 
intensely on the investment merits of all potential portfolio holdings, and 
consider all relevant aspects of the fundamental research process, including 
ESG factors. At the same time, we are sensitive to some of our customers’ 
desires that their investments reflect their personal beliefs. Therefore, for 
these customers, we offer thematic funds, investment solutions, and planning 
tools that incorporate sustainable investing considerations. 
Our expectations for the companies we invest in are evolving as we 
encourage a greater focus on, and disclosure of, issues related to ESG risks 
and opportunities. We have similar expectations for our own evolution 
toward improved corporate social responsibility. We know we have more 
to do, though we have made strides in our dedication to sustainability, our 
associate experience, and our focus on diversity and inclusion. 
“
Corporations are responding to social and political issues in a 
way they haven’t before, showing increasing accountability to 
society more broadly to protect against reputational fallout, and 
to attract the next generation of socially minded talent. As we 
examine companies’ efforts to attract diverse workforces, detailed 
disclosures allow us to track progress over time, see which 
companies stand out, and identify practices that work.”
COURTNEY BEDELL, ESG ANALYST—CYCLICALS AND ENERGY
Report on Investment Sustainability and Impact   |   2
Table of Contents
4 Foreword by Pam Holding, Co-Head of Equity  
and Head of Sustainable Investing
6 What Is Sustainable Investing?
8 Integrating ESG into Fidelity’s Investment Process
16 ESG Stewardship in Action: Engage, Vote, Promote
20  Perspectives on Key ESG Factors
    Governance
    Board Leadership
  Workplace Diversity and Inclusion
  Climate Risk
 
26 Environmental Sustainability at Fidelity: Investing in Our Future 
27 Fidelity ESG Fund Spotlights
  Women’s Leadership Fund
  Water Sustainability Fund
31 What’s Next?
RReeppoorrtt  oonn  IInnvveessttmmeenntt  SSuussttaaiinnaabbiilliittyy  aanndd  IImmppaacctt      ||      33
FOREWORD
Fidelity’s ESG Investing Team presents our first Report on Investment 
Sustainability and Impact at a challenging time. Nations around the 
world are wrestling with issues of social justice and equality alongside 
the growing tragedy of lives lost and economic hardship due to 
COVID-19. The global pandemic has upended the way we work and 
Pam Holding interact with others. It has also put a spotlight on the need to evolve 
Co-Head of Equity  how financial services firms address heightened customer expectations 
and Head of  for corporate stewardship in the areas of investment research and 
Sustainable Investing
investment product design.
 
The economic disruption, social unrest, and global health crisis over 
the past year have moved many of us to reflect on our priorities and 
the values most important to us. Many corporations have accelerated 
their sustainability efforts and sharpened their focus on critical matters 
such as employee and management diversity, corporate governance, 
sustainable product design, and supply chain management. Perhaps 
now more than ever, investors want to ensure their investments are 
aligned with their core values and that the companies they own put 
employees and communities at the forefront of corporate stewardship. 
2017 
2017  Fidelity Sustainable  
Fidelity Sustainable   International Equity 
U.S. Equity Index  Index Fund  
Fund Launched Launched
 2010
 2011  2018
Corporate Enterprise 
 2017
Environmental   Governance and   Fidelity Stewardship 
Sustainability Office  Forensic Accounting  Centralized  Principles Released
Established Research Team   ESG Research  
Formed Team Formed
RReeppoorrtt  oonn  IInnvveessttmmeenntt  SSuussttaaiinnaabbiilliittyy  aanndd  IImmppaacctt      ||      44
While this may be our first published report outlining our sustainable investing 
efforts, ESG considerations have been part of our investment stewardship and 
research process for many years. Since its founding, Fidelity has sought to build 
the broadest mosaic possible to identify investment opportunities and risks—
across all asset classes, investment styles, and geographies. 
We believe the operating behaviors, principles, and outcomes associated with 
ESG initiatives are integral to a company’s long-term economic success, and 
thus should be incorporated into the investment research process. Therefore, 
ESG research at Fidelity is guided by the same intellectual rigor and proprietary 
analysis that shape all of our active management capabilities.
I am honored to lead Fidelity’s sustainable investing efforts and proud to 
represent our ESG Investing Team’s commitment to deep, fundamental analysis 
of ESG issues and development of a wide range of sustainable products to 
meet our customers’ needs.
2020
Fidelity Water 
Sustainability Fund 
Launched 2020 
2019 
Fidelity Proprietary 
ESG Fund Report  
ESG Ratings  
Card Launched
Launched
2019 
Fidelity Women’s  
Leadership Fund 
2018  Launched
Fidelity Sustainable 
U.S. Bond Index 
Fund Launched
RReeppoorrtt o onn  IInnvveessttmmeenntt  SSuussttaaininaabbiliiltityy  aanndd I Immppaacctt       ||      55
What Is Sustainable 
Investing?
Report on Investment Sustainability and Impact   |   6
What is sustainable investing?
We define sustainable investing as a discipline that integrates ESG factors into investment 
research and decision-making. Evaluating the ESG factors that are material to a given industry 
and company can help assess an investment’s sustainability. Generally, sustainable investing 
can mean selecting companies that limit the negative impact their operations and products 
have on the environment; focus on more equitable relationships among and between their 
customers, employees, suppliers, and communities they operate in; and exhibit accountable 
and transparent governance with diverse and independent boards, compensation incentives 
that align with shareholders, and sound capital allocation policies.
At Fidelity, we believe that robust ESG practices can be critical to an investment’s long-term 
success. Therefore, where appropriate and aligned with a fund’s investment objectives, we 
apply an ESG perspective directly to the products we offer our clients. More broadly, we have 
incorporated ESG factors into our bottom-up fundamental research—across all asset classes 
and investment disciplines. 
Our deep, fundamental investment research process includes ESG analysis to help us better 
identify risks and superior investment opportunities. For example, examining environmental 
factors can reveal which companies are responsive to consumer demand for sustainable 
practices. A focus on social themes can identify businesses that demonstrate a commitment  
to a diverse and inclusive workplace. And attention to governance can uncover which 
companies are committed to diverse board composition and shareholder-friendly policies.
Environmental: Sustainability  Social: More equitable societies  Governance: Accountable 
& resource efficiency and respect for human rights governance and transparent 
operations
•  Climate change •  Labor standards, health,  
•  Greenhouse gas emissions and safety •  Executive incentive structure
•  Natural resource depletion •  Diversity, employee  •  Board diversity and 
engagement independence
•  Waste & pollution
•  Supply chain management •  Transparency and disclosure
•  Energy efficiency
•  Local community impact •  Lobbying/Political 
•  Alternative energy
•  Data protection/Privacy contributions
•  Bribery and corruption
•  Business ethics
Compiled from the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (UNPRI), CFA Institute, and the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB).  
Report on Investment Sustainability and Impact   |   7
Integrating ESG into Fidelity’s 
Investment Process
Report on Investment Sustainability and Impact   |   8
Integrating ESG into Fidelity’s Investment Process
In our role as a global asset management firm, we remain focused on the same proprietary  
research and investing principles that have always guided us. We consider all relevant components 
of the investment research process and carefully evaluate the investment merits of all potential 
portfolio holdings. With more than $3.5 trillion1 in assets under management, Fidelity’s depth 
and breadth of research coverage mean we can thoroughly assess a company’s economic and 
investment potential. 
Since its founding, Fidelity’s investment research organization has been based on a culture of 
individual accountability and a meritocracy of investment ideas. Consistent with this approach, 
portfolio managers are not mandated to incorporate ESG into their research process; however, we 
believe that ESG factors represent a set of corporate attributes that can be financially material and 
thus should not be ignored. When properly contextualized, ESG considerations can help portfolio 
managers and analysts evaluate and expand their investment theses. Through the lens of a skilled 
active manager, the analysis of ESG factors can provide an expanded view into the durability of a 
company’s competitive advantage and earnings growth, as well as potential business model risks. 
A historical and forward-looking ESG assessment can help confirm if company management is 
effectively addressing the relevant intermediate- and long-term systematic risks that may not be 
uncovered when only relying on an investment’s quantitative earnings model. 
While fundamental, bottom-up company research is still the key to constructing earnings models 
and determining enterprise value, we believe that ESG factors can be an important part of the 
overall investment risk assessment for many companies. ESG factors are important inputs into the 
overall research process to help identify companies that are best-positioned to attract top talent, 
develop the most innovative products, and drive long-term value creation for their employees, 
communities, and shareholders. Simply put, we believe that a focus on sustainability risks is an 
essential component of a world-class fundamental research process. 
FIDELITY’S ESG CAPABILITIES THROUGHOUT THE INVESTMENT PROCESS
ESG Integration
ESG integration into our  
investment process through 
propriety ESG ratings and   Customer Choice 
research publication Offering a variety   Engagement
of products and   Actively engaging  
solutions that   with companies on ESG-related 
consider ESG issues, through management 
meetings and proxy voting
Impact
Developing the tools to  
measure and monitor the 
contribution of ESG factors
Report on Investment Sustainability and Impact   |   9
FIDELITY’S INTEGRATED SUSTAINABLE INVESTING MODEL
Analyst Ratings
Analyst Model Portfolios
Fundamental   Risk Management
Analyst Best Ideas
Conviction 
Take a disciplined 
Find the most   risk management  
attractive securities   approach to help  
according to industry-  identify ESG and other  
focused analysts and   risk characteristics that  
sector specialists inform position  
sizing
Corporate  ESG 
Engagement Evaluation
Conduct company   Identify companies  
visits to understand   with strong and 
current and future   improving ESG 
ESG initiatives profiles
Environmental
Social
Governance
Today, about 15% of global energy comes from green sources, but to 
“
limit global warming below the 1.5°C threshold, we would need to be 
close to 30% by 2030 and 60% by 2050.2 Across most geographies, 
wind and solar power are cheaper than fossil fuels, so there appears 
to be tremendous alignment between economic and environmental 
incentives over the next decade.”
PRANAY KIRPALANI, EQUITY ANALYST—INDUSTRIALS
RReeppoorrtt  oonn  IInnvveessttmmeenntt  SSuussttaaiinnaabbiilliittyy  aanndd  IImmppaacctt      ||      1100
Fidelity’s ESG Investing Team
All of our analysts and portfolio managers are focused on  RESOURCES, RESEARCH, 
detecting and analyzing the factors that could affect portfolio  AND REVIEW
holdings, including relevant ESG risks and opportunities. We 
have a dedicated ESG team committed to equipping our 
investment teams with education, training, resources, and 
insights to aid in their evaluation of companies‘ ESG efforts. 
Integrating ESG considerations within our established  125+ equity analysts covering 
fundamental research processes supports Fidelity’s belief that 
nearly 2,300 stocks globally 
positive engagement with companies creates value for 
80+ analysts dedicated to 
shareholders and other stakeholders. 
fixed income
We seek to evaluate a company’s current sustainability 
profile as well as identify the intangibles that can provide  30+ focused on high income 
a more complete picture of a company’s future earnings  and alternative investments
potential. In doing so, we can broaden our investment 
6 dedicated ESG analysts
universe and thus our opportunity set. 
Governance and Forensic 
Equities
Accounting Research team of 
We believe that ESG factors can affect competitiveness,  5 analysts in place since 20113
performance, and earnings in both the short and long term. 
Fidelity’s ESG analysts are assigned specific equity sectors 
and are responsible for publishing ESG research and insights 
relevant to industries and companies that encompass their 
coverage universe. 
In 2019, our analysts held 
We are expanding and formalizing ESG research as part of the 
an average of 19 in-house 
mosaic our portfolio managers and analysts consider when 
evaluating investment opportunities. Through engagement with  company meetings per day  
management, our ESG Investing Team assesses the impact of  and generated nearly 27,000 
material ESG factors on companies’ operations.  research reports
Report on Investment Sustainability and Impact   |   11
Fixed income Asset allocation
Relevant ESG considerations are included in our  ESG considerations have the potential to affect 
overall assessment of the creditworthiness of fixed  the risks inherent in a multi-asset class portfolio, 
income investments, whether from corporate,  as well as potential future return opportunities— 
sovereign, or quasi-governmental issuers.  both from existing holdings and emerging 
In the corporate bond market, a company’s  investment themes. We incorporate ESG factors 
behavior is linked to its creditworthiness. Legal  into our strategic asset allocation decisions and 
and reputational events can affect corporate  have enhanced the process for selecting building 
bondholders as they do equity investors, so  blocks that integrate ESG principles into their 
it is important that our fixed income analysts  investment philosophies.
engage with companies alongside their equity 
Risk management
counterparts.
While a critical focus of the ESG Investing Team 
Engagement with sovereign issuers is just as 
is on individual companies and the sustainability 
important for investors as it is with corporate 
of their business operations, it is also important 
issuers, as we believe there is a clear link between 
for our portfolio managers to understand the 
an issuer’s ESG credentials and default risk. Bond 
general ESG footprint of their entire portfolios. 
investors often face unique challenges when it 
The ESG team has spent significant time with 
comes to engagement with sovereign issuers. 
portfolio managers to develop an analytics tool 
Nevertheless, our team of sovereign analysts 
that highlights exposure to risks associated with 
goes to great lengths to engage with central 
climate, human rights, diversity, and other ESG 
banks and policymakers to better understand 
factors. This tool helps our investment teams make 
ESG factors that could affect a sovereign issuer’s 
informed decisions about their portfolios from an 
creditworthiness.
ESG perspective.
Just over a decade ago, a new market for “green” 
bonds emerged, and issuance has increased 
dramatically over the last several years. Green 
bonds are fixed income securities issued to fund 
environmentally friendly projects. As long-term 
investors, our analysts see potential opportunities 
investing in forward-looking companies that are 
on the leading edge of green innovation.
Report on Investment Sustainability and Impact   |   12
Proprietary ESG ratings: Reflecting Fidelity’s strengths
We have always considered all material factors,  Just as we adapt our fundamental research 
including ESG considerations, when evaluating an  process over time, we anticipate that our ESG 
investment’s potential. More recently, we formally  rating framework will evolve as more data 
incorporated ESG ratings into our fundamental  becomes available and our investment teams 
research process. We are currently expanding a  do more research. Since Fidelity’s founding, we 
proprietary ESG rating framework that is fueled by  have approached investment research with the 
Fidelity’s own data sets.  intellectual rigor, curiosity, and resources that 
enable us to refine our process as circumstances 
This framework defines a process for evaluating 
and conditions change. 
a company’s current and future ESG positioning 
relative to its peers. These ratings enhance the  Our proprietary ESG ratings have two components. 
ability of our investment teams to identify   A systematic rating that is quantitative and based 
how ESG factors are influencing a company’s  on current and historical data provides a current-
earnings outlook.   state assessment of a company’s ESG practices. 
A forward-looking, fundamental rating provides 
The rating system leverages the industry expertise 
a qualitative assessment of the company’s 
of analysts across asset classes and the research 
sustainability outlook. 
expertise of our ESG team. Analysts record 
key sustainability findings and share them as  We believe that this forward-looking, qualitative 
resources for our portfolio managers globally.  component of the analysis is an important 
Our ratings emphasize key ESG considerations  differentiating factor, as many ESG data providers 
that we believe are financially and operationally  focus on disclosure and historical data points 
pertinent to a company’s long-term performance.  rather than anticipating the future trajectory of a 
The collaboration between ESG analysts and  company’s sustainability efforts. This aspect of the 
fundamental analysts is critical in arriving at the  rating could help smaller companies that lack the 
weightings of key ESG factors. For example,  resources to reach the disclosure transparency of 
carbon and toxic emissions will carry more weight  larger peers. It can also help identify companies 
for an energy company, whereas product safety  that may not currently appear attractive from a 
and drug pricing will be critical factors for a health  sustainability perspective, but are making changes 
care company. that demonstrate improvement and positive 
momentum, or vice versa.
“
ESG factors are an essential component of our credit 
research process. I find it exciting and rewarding to invest 
JOHN HOUSTON   in companies that are at the forefront of environmental 
PORTFOLIO  
innovation. These investments are helping to address 
MANAGER 
climate change, while also providing our clients and 
FIXED INCOME
shareholders opportunities to participate in a growing 
market that aligns with their personal goals and beliefs.”
Report on Investment Sustainability and Impact   |   13
Fidelity’s proprietary data sets inform  
our ESG ratings
To avoid potential biases in third-party data, we have 
developed proprietary data sets on issues such as governance, 
“I believe companies that work 
carbon emissions and toxic waste, and diversity and inclusion,  
effectively with policymakers 
to serve as critical inputs into our ESG rating system. These  
to accelerate lower-carbon 
are just some of the key factors we consider in our ESG 
footprints, deliver on transition 
evaluation and they can vary by company, business model, 
industry, and region. plans, and innovate are the 
companies to invest in.”
Governance
CARRIE SAINT LOUIS 
We have developed a governance rating framework centered 
FIXED INCOME ANALYST—UTILITIES
on three pillars: board quality, compensation, and shareholder 
rights. Board quality focuses on a company’s relative board 
independence, composition and refreshment, and diversity.  
In our view, the quality of the board is often integral to a 
board’s management and alignment with shareholder interests. 
Our compensation framework focuses on long-term pay for 
performance, peer-relative metrics, long-term-oriented pay 
practices, and pay in alignment with shareholder interests. 
Finally, we evaluate shareholders’ ability to advocate and 
advance proposals to company management and the board.
Carbon emissions and toxic waste
We focus on companies’ current emissions levels and how 
they are trending. We incorporate emissions data and rate 
companies on both their carbon intensity and absolute 
emissions. A small component of the rating identifies 
companies that are significant absolute emitters to ensure we 
properly assess companies with outsized climate impacts. We 
follow a similar approach for toxic emissions and look at data 
on environmental compliance, including infractions, violations, 
and fines incurred for breaching certain regulations, adjusted 
for company size.
Report on Investment Sustainability and Impact   |   14
Diversity and inclusion Diversity:
Company-reported statistics on workforce  The range of human differences, 
demographics provide a snapshot of where a  including, but not limited to, race, 
company stands today. It is also important to  ethnicity, gender, gender identity, 
understand a company’s focus on workforce  sexual orientation, age, social class, 
inclusion initiatives. Therefore, we have developed  physical ability or attributes, religious or 
an analytical framework to provide insight into  ethical values system, national origin, 
a company’s approach to retaining, hiring, and  and political beliefs. Diversity in the 
promoting diverse talent.  workplace also recognizes differences 
We focus on four pillars: leadership, commitments,  in education, personalities, skill sets, 
culture, and pipeline. Using a combination of  experiences, thinking styles, and 
proprietary quantitative and qualitative insights, we  knowledge bases.
have identified a series of criteria to rate companies 
along these dimensions. Our sources include  Inclusion: 
company announcements as well as third-party 
The active, intentional, and ongoing 
rankings and indices, which are considered alongside 
involvement and empowerment 
assessments of related negative events.
of individuals, where the inherent 
It is important to note that, in many cases, U.S.-based  worth and dignity of all people are 
companies do not yet report their workforce ethnicity  recognized and respected. This also 
data. Consequently, these data components are not  includes equitable solutions that 
yet a uniform part of our scoring system. To aid in our  promote fairness in outcomes. These 
evaluation of companies’ commitments to workforce  solutions may include different types 
diversity, inclusive workplace environments, and  of messaging or experiences that are 
human capital management, we also seek to obtain  tailored based on individual needs.
and incorporate data on unconscious bias training 
programs, recruiting partnerships with historically 
black colleges, and racial diversity at the company 
board level. We are still working to make our 
diversity and inclusion methodology more robust in 
its measurement of racial data and believe that this 
undertaking will only get easier as more and more 
companies begin to disclose these statistics. 
Report on Investment Sustainability and Impact   |   15
ESG Stewardship in Action:  
Engage, Vote, Promote
Report on Investment Sustainability and Impact   |   16
ESG Stewardship in Action: Engage, Vote, Promote
Engagement ESG team: Our ESG analysts prioritize 
When we meet with company management,  engagement with companies where we 1) want 
we discuss a variety of matters that we consider  to learn more about progress on specific ESG 
material to our assessment of the long-term  metrics, 2) are significant shareholders, or 3) have 
enterprise value of the company, including  an opportunity to learn about company-specific 
ESG factors. Meetings are supplemented by an  initiatives or research that may contribute to our 
informal schedule of site visits and ad hoc calls.  assessment of a company’s sustainability profile.
Research may encompass customers, suppliers,  Governance team: To encourage best corporate 
competitors, external industry experts, sell-side  governance practices, and as part of our proxy 
investment analysts, and other shareholders,  voting process, Fidelity’s governance analysts 
directly and through intermediary networks. engage with companies on topics such as 
We employ a variety of different engagement  executive and equity compensation plans, 
strategies, but they are generally initiated by three  director independence, shareholder rights 
distinct groups within Fidelity Asset Management: proposals, and anti-takeover mechanisms.
Investment teams: Our portfolio managers and  Often, analysts from all three groups attend 
analysts communicate with companies to maintain  meetings and information is shared among 
strong, constructive relationships. These ongoing  them to create awareness of different ESG risks 
interactions provide additional context and  and opportunities and to ensure we are well 
information to help us mitigate risks and maximize  positioned to address them.
long-term value for fund shareholders.
ADVANCING DIALOGUE ABOUT ESG RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES
Governance
Human Capital
Board Quality and Diversity
Talent Retention/Attrition
Board Oversight
Diversity and Inclusion
Executive Compensation
Culture
RReeppoorrtt  oonn  IInnvveessttmmeenntt  SSuussttaaiinnaabbiilliittyy  aanndd  IImmppaacctt      ||      1177
Proxy voting 
The responsibility to vote on ballot items is an important  Fidelity has 14 in-house 
and integral part of our ESG stewardship and research. Our  governance and proxy associates. 
dedicated proxy voting team reviews every proxy proposal to  Over the course of one year, 
ensure that our votes accurately reflect Fidelity’s views and  we participated in 5,700+ 
the views of each fund’s investment team. In addition, our 
shareholder meetings, reviewed 
ESG team evaluates all shareholder proposals concerning 
56,000+ proposals, and cast 
environmental and social responsibility. We seek to balance the 
103,000+ ballots.4
perspective of company management with our own company-
specific concerns. When we determine that the plans put forth 
by company management do not adequately address our 
concerns, we may express our view by supporting shareholder 
proposals or voting against company proposals.
Fidelity has a uniform set of proxy voting guidelines, but all our 
mutual funds have the flexibility to vote individual proxies based 
on an assessment of each situation. For example, Fidelity’s 
ESG-focused mutual funds have the flexibility, based on their 
individual investment mandates, to vote differently  
than other funds on specific environmental, social, or 
governance issues.
Climate Risk Event-Driven
Operating Efficiency Critical Business Operations,  
Transition and Physical Risk Reputational Impact
Emissions Management Mining Risks
Cybersecurity/Privacy
Product Safety
RReeppoorrtt  oonn  IInnvveessttmmeenntt  SSuussttaaiinnaabbiilliittyy  aanndd  IImmppaacctt      ||      1188
Shareholder proposals
Our goal as investment stewards is to provide clear guidance on what ESG factors  
we believe are material to each company and to engage and vote accordingly. Therefore, 
to engage and vote more effectively on the growing number of submitted shareholder 
proposals, we developed a decision-making framework to ensure that the resolutions we 
are voting on are financially material, relevant, and provide valuable information  
to shareholders.
Proxy votes on shareholder proposals are an important stewardship responsibility, but 
do not represent the totality of the ESG Investing Team’s views on the investment merits 
of any specific topic. Through our engagement with company management, we seek to 
understand the current and future plans to address material issues that could affect a 
company’s future earnings growth.
FIDELITY’S DECISION-MAKING FRAMEWORK FOR SHAREHOLDER PROPOSALS
Assess  Review  Determine  Ensure  
materiality  current  investment  feasibility
value
policy and 
disclosures
RReeppoorrtt  oonn  IInnvveessttmmeenntt  SSuussttaaiinnaabbiilliittyy  aanndd  IImmppaacctt      ||      1199
Perspectives on  
Key ESG Factors
Report on Investment Sustainability and Impact   |   20
Perspectives on Key ESG Factors
We believe that the extent of an ESG risk is best understood when all stakeholders 
are considered. Therefore, our ESG evaluation considers a company’s impact on its 
various stakeholders and constituencies, including its shareholders, local communities, 
employees, and the global climate. By considering ESG factors holistically through a 
stakeholder lens, our investment teams can better capture the totality of a company’s risks 
and opportunities. Water stress is an example of an ESG concern with multiple layers of 
risk. It is a critical issue that can halt operations in many industries, but can also heighten 
tensions between corporations and local communities that may be in competition for the 
same limited water supply. 
Sustainability disclosure
We believe that consistent disclosure standards will improve the quality and comparability 
of sustainability-related information. Fidelity is actively engaged in industry efforts to 
provide investors with standardized sustainability information for use in investment 
decision-making. For example, the company is a member of the Sustainable Accounting 
Standards Board (SASB) Alliance. In our view, SASB’s industry-specific approach, focused 
on financially material issues, provides investors with relevant information for better 
decision-making. We encourage companies to participate in the ongoing process of 
standards development, so that outcomes will reflect both issuer and investor viewpoints. 
Governance
Strong governance is a principle that has always been a critical input into our fundamental 
research process. In our view, progress on environmental and social issues is often linked 
to independent and diverse boards capable of steering companies for long-term success. 
Without strong and constructive corporate governance, we believe companies may lack 
the incentive structure required to ensure their corporate cultures uphold the pillars of 
environmental and social sustainability. We are supportive of board actions that do not 
limit or restrict shareholder rights, such as proxy access and attendance at meetings, and 
discourage the use of anti-takeover provisions, like classified boards and supermajority vote 
requirements. In addition to the quality of boards, we evaluate management incentives and 
shareholders’ ability to intervene when needed, to advocate for themselves or for other 
stakeholders.
Appropriately structured executive compensation programs that align management 
incentives with the best interests of shareholders and other stakeholders are critical. Our 
corporate governance team conducts a thorough and independent compensation analysis 
that focuses on pay for performance. This analysis facilitates constructive conversations 
with companies and promotes best practices in compensation programs. 
Report on Investment Sustainability and Impact   |   21
CASE STUDY
Human rights risk assessment
Over the last several years, companies involved in the manufacturing, marketing,  
and distribution of products have been encouraged to examine and proactively  
address the impact of their business on human rights across the supply chain. While 
low-cost manufacturing is an indispensable option, the ability to measure, disclose,  
and improve on key human rights metrics has set industry leaders apart when it comes 
to sustainability. Companies that cause, contribute to, or are directly linked to human 
rights abuses face material risks, including reputational damage, project disruptions, 
and litigation. 
Fidelity engaged with a large company regarding a shareholder proposal to conduct 
a human rights impact assessment on high-risk product categories. While third-party 
auditors conduct both announced and unannounced audits at its manufacturers’ sites, 
the company had not undertaken its own human rights assessments, as many of its 
peers had done. 
We determined that the company had gaps in its disclosures. Management indicated 
that it had plans to expand its human rights risk assessment but didn’t share a specific 
timeline for its actions. We determined that the company could provide additional 
information about its policies and oversight mechanisms to identify and assess the 
human rights risks to its operations and supply chain. 
Although we concluded that voting in favor of the human rights impact assessment 
study was in the best interest of our shareholders, the engagement with company 
management was a positive experience. The company adopted many of the actions we 
had discussed, and the engagement ultimately strengthened our overall assessment of 
the company’s sustainability profile.
RReeppoorrtt  oonn  IInnvveessttmmeenntt  SSuussttaaiinnaabbiilliittyy  aanndd  IImmppaacctt      ||      2222
Board leadership
We believe that strong board leadership is a critical component of corporate governance 
and leads to improved risk oversight and alignment with shareholders. Therefore, we focus 
on the following key issues related to board structure and compensation:
•  Independence: We believe that public company boards benefit from majority 
independence. Board independence is critical to providing unbiased risk oversight and 
ensuring companies serve the interests of shareholders.
•  Composition/evaluations: We expect regular evaluations of board members that 
consider the mix of expertise, knowledge, and diversity. Companies should have 
mechanisms in place to encourage strategic refreshment of boards. Collectively, these 
actions help to balance current business needs with the diversity and expertise that 
may be required in the future.
•  Diversity: We encourage board diversity across a number of dimensions, including 
but not limited to, background, gender, race, ethnicity, skills, knowledge, and relative 
experience. Evidence has shown that diverse groups often make better decisions and 
are better equipped to mitigate business risks. We believe companies should consider 
the broadest possible pool of candidates when seeking out new members for boards. 
Workplace diversity and inclusion
We believe companies that prioritize health and safety, workplace diversity, retention, 
and an inclusive corporate culture are more likely to attract and retain high-value talent. 
Therefore, we examine companies’ diversity and inclusion efforts because we believe they 
serve as a proxy for good human capital management. 
Companies with talent pipeline-building initiatives, like diverse interview slates, intentional 
diversity recruiting practices, or partnerships with external organizations focused on 
diversity are better equipped to attract and build more diverse workforces. At Fidelity, 
we believe that the preponderance of empirical evidence, as well as our own research 
observations, indicate that companies with more diverse workforces are better positioned 
to outperform their peers. 
We support the development of policies and disclosure on these issues—through both 
our research engagement and proxy voting—in instances where we identify opportunities 
to address cultural or structural barriers that may hamper a company’s progress toward 
building a more diverse workforce.
Report on Investment Sustainability and Impact   |   23
Climate risk
When we consider climate change, the wide range of potential risks across the global 
economy can be overwhelming to consider and prioritize. As a signatory of the United 
Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (UNPRI), the Task Force on Climate-
Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), and Ceres (a nonprofit organization working to 
address sustainability challenges, including climate change, water scarcity, and pollution), 
we acknowledge the call to action regarding climate change. We believe that the most 
immediate opportunity to better address climate risks is to encourage transparency through 
the disclosure of material and accurate information.
We believe management teams that focus on climate risks are often better positioned to 
deliver shareholder value over the long term. Therefore, we strive to identify companies that 
acknowledge and respond to climate risk, and favor those that are innovating to address it in 
ways that provide tangible value to shareholders.
We do not see climate risk as an edict to divest from particular industries. Rather, we 
see potential opportunities for more sustainable business practices in carbon-intensive 
industries. Incremental steps forward for such companies can have a disproportionately 
greater impact relative to similar efforts by companies in less carbon-intensive industries.
We encourage many of our portfolio companies to prepare for a shift to a low-carbon 
economy and capitalize on potential opportunities, such as renewable energy alternatives 
and innovative technologies. We foresee a competitive advantage and risk-mitigation 
benefits for companies that undergo this scenario planning analysis, and reflect this view 
through engagement and proxy voting.
Through discussions and engagement, we seek to learn more about company 
management’s focus on environmental sustainability issues. We expect any environmental 
sustainability programs and initiatives to be pertinent to the company’s operations. For 
example, industrial conglomerates may focus on specific toxic waste reduction goals, 
while oil and gas companies should consider carbon emissions targets. Our engagement 
centers on understanding how relevant environmental sustainability goals are linked to 
management metrics and compensation incentives.
Water stress
Water stress and scarcity are not only issues for companies in the water industry. 
Several other industries are water-intensive users, such as extractives businesses and 
beverage companies. Therefore, for any industries where water use is an essential part 
of operations, we look for companies with disclosures on their water resource use and 
clear strategies for mitigating the impact. We engage with these companies to determine 
whether they choose prudent business locations and focus on efficient water use at 
facilities located in areas where clean water is scarce.
Report on Investment Sustainability and Impact   |   24
CASE STUDY
Climate risk disclosures in financial services
We expect financial services companies to readily provide disclosure around 
company-specific climate exposure, including trends in their lending, underwriting, 
and financing practices, as well as the scenarios they use to assess risks to their 
individual portfolios. While direct exposure to high-risk sectors such as oil and gas 
is one important part of the equation, gauging how companies evaluate and protect 
against climate risk more broadly is also critical.  
The Financial Stability Board created the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD) to develop a set of recommendations for voluntary and 
consistent climate-related financial risk disclosure. Fidelity has engaged large 
lenders to understand how they are implementing and reporting on the TCFD 
recommendations to better gauge their overall exposure to risk in their lending 
and underwriting businesses. Central banks across the globe have called for more 
climate change disclosure, and the Network for Greening the Financial System 
has highlighted scenarios to be used for evaluating climate change governance in 
financial services. 
We engaged with a financial services company to discuss its TCFD reporting.  
We indicated to management that as a financier of fossil fuel-related investments, 
the company has a critical role in financial services when it comes to climate-
related risks and the potential effect on shareholders. Additionally, the company’s 
competitors had provided more detailed TCFD reporting, highlighting portfolio 
exposures at risk, clear risk targets and metrics, and strategies to ensure they  
meet them. 
During our conversations, management stated that it would provide financing 
commitment targets and noted plans to engage with clients regarding their long-
term business strategies and related carbon disclosure. 
These plans reflect steps the company is taking to improve its reputation around 
climate change and take a more forward-looking stance on environmental financing. 
While some of these points are still being finalized, this company’s progress 
demonstrates the expertise that Fidelity can provide when companies engage with 
our ESG Investing team about sustainability disclosure.
RReeppoorrtt  oonn  IInnvveessttmmeenntt  SSuussttaaiinnaabbiilliittyy  aanndd  IImmppaacctt      ||      2255
ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY AT FIDELITY
Investing in Our Future
More than a decade ago, Fidelity established a Chief 
Sustainability Officer role and launched a cross-company 
ESG steering committee to provide guidance on the 
company’s environmental efforts. But long before the 
establishment of a formal position, sustainability at 
Fidelity was focused on practical approaches for resource 
efficiency and conservation. We are now integrating 
sustainability perspectives across our business strategies, 
products, and services.
The evolution of Fidelity’s ESG investment research has 
had a positive impact on our long-standing efforts toward 
becoming a more sustainable company. Our ESG research 
increases our understanding of innovation in sustainability 
initiatives, which helps inform our internal operating plans 
and priorities.
FIDELITY ESG FUND SPOTLIGHTS
We provide our shareholders with the ability to invest consistent with 
their values, while also seeking to deliver long-term investment value. 
We offer ESG strategies focused on themes such as sustainability, 
alternative energy, and gender diversity.
Women’s Leadership Fund 
The philosophy of the Women’s Leadership Fund is to invest in companies that prioritize 
and advance women’s leadership and development. To be considered for the fund, 
companies must meet at least one of the following three criteria: 
1.  Women in leadership, such as in the role of CEO or on the management team
2.  Women represent at least 33% of the board
3.  Best-in-sector gender diversity initiatives and policies 
Best-in-sector companies based on gender diversity initiatives and policies are identified 
by Fidelity proprietary research after assessing numerous factors, including diversity 
commitments, unconscious bias training, pay gap, and leadership development programs. 
Research studies have suggested a positive correlation between gender diversity and 
profitability.5 We have found that  top-scoring companies on Fidelity’s diversity screens 
have also shown favorable financial characteristics, such as strong return on equity, 
earnings stability, and earnings growth. Our fundamental research process uses both 
quality and growth analysis to construct a diversified all-cap portfolio of about 100 to 150 
companies, with up to 20% of companies based outside the United States.
Prospectus information and fund pricing and performance can be found at  
Fidelity.com/FWOMX.
NICOLE CONNOLLY 
PORTFOLIO MANAGER 
WOMEN’S LEADERSHIP FUND
Company highlight: Williams-Sonoma, Inc. (WSM)
A specialty retailer focused on both cookware and  compensation and benefits, senior management 
furniture under brands that include Pottery Barn,  sentiment, and career opportunities—are 
Williams-Sonoma, and West Elm, WSM is one of  generally more resilient. They often show greater 
only six companies in the Fortune 500 that has  ability to innovate, a constructive approach to 
both a female CEO and CFO and has 50% female  human-capital management and investment in 
board representation.6 Sixty percent of WSM’s  new talent, and flexibility in managing their supply 
revenues are from e-commerce and growing rapidly.7  chains. These factors tend to be key drivers of 
West Elm is growing by double digits with brand  long-term profitability and return to shareholders.
awareness at just 25% of relevant consumers.8 
Commitment to sustainability: Williams-Sonoma 
Furniture is a fragmented market and the company’s 
currently certifies 100% of its Pottery Barn Kids 
strong brand positioning has the potential to result in 
furniture as low emissions under strict guidelines 
further share gains.
(exceeding regulations), and is on track to meet 
Multi-stakeholder philosophy: During the  goals of 100% responsibly sourced cotton and 
COVID-19 pandemic when many retailers were  50% responsibly sourced wood by 2021, building 
furloughing employees, WSM continued to pay its  on nearly two decades of sustainable supply-chain 
employees while its stores were closed, electing  practices and policies.
to forego store remodels and advertising to 
Commitment to diversity: The company has been 
ensure the well-being of employees. We believe 
recognized for its commitment to diversity and 
that companies such as WSM—which recognize 
appeared on Forbes’ 2020 list of “Best Employers 
the disproportionate impact of the pandemic on 
for Diversity.” 
minorities and women and are focused on factors 
such as work-life balance, culture and values, 
FIDELITY ESG FUND SPOTLIGHTS
Water Sustainability Fund 
The Water Sustainability Fund is focused on taking action to address the 
global water crisis by investing in companies at the forefront of developing 
new technologies. Investors in the fund have exposure to innovative and 
disruptive companies that are strong stewards of sustainability and specialize  2 Billion+  
in new water technologies, data, and infrastructure. people in the world 
The global water industry is estimated at approximately $780 billion and  do not have access  
growing by four to six percentage points per year.9 Fidelity believes that  to water that is  
investing in water—which has had an attractive risk and return profile over the  safe to drink.10
past 15 years—may be a secular trend, as there is increasing awareness of the 
water scarcity problem and growing urgency to solve it. 
More than 2 billion people in the world do not have access to safely 
managed drinking water and by 2025, two-thirds of the world population 
2/3
could be living in water-stressed countries.10 This crisis has resulted from a 
combination of insufficient infrastructure, population and economic growth,  of the global  
and climate change. The global water supply is finite, but demand for clean  population may  
water is accelerating alongside population growth. Climate issues are  be living in  
exacerbating the risks of reduced access to fresh water. As a result, water 
water-stressed  
initiatives encompass at least four of the 17 United Nations Sustainable 
countries by 2025.10 
Development Goals.
The Water Sustainability Fund seeks to find best-in-breed companies around 
the world that are working to improve the availability and abundance of safe, 
reliable, and affordable water. Intensive fundamental research and disciplined 
portfolio construction lead to a relatively concentrated portfolio of the 
manager’s best ideas, containing approximately 30 to 40 companies from 
around the globe.
Prospectus information and fund pricing and performance can be found at 
Fidelity.com/FLOWX.
Company highlight: Xylem Inc. (XYL)
Xylem is a market leader, with industry-leading products and technology 
throughout the water cycle that help combat water scarcity, build greater 
resiliency, and enhance water affordability. XYL has made early investments in 
differentiated technologies and business models within communication systems, 
metrology, energy efficiency, data analytics, and advanced infrastructure 
analytics. XYL’s management team has a strong focus on shareholder returns, 
value-accretive growth, and creating social value. 
XYL is a leader in serving customers, building a sustainable company, and 
empowering communities. According to XYL’s 2019 Sustainability Report, the 
company creates social value by “providing water-related disaster relief expertise, 
technology and equipment to communities in need, by educating and raising 
awareness about water challenges, by inspiring the next generation of water 
stewards, and by tapping into the passion of our employees and stakeholder 
volunteers to give time to local water-related causes.”11 In 2019, XYL launched a 
sustainability strategy that included ambitious 2025 sustainability goals.
Fidelity and XYL’s management team have worked closely together for years. 
Together, we have performed deep dives on products and segments during trade 
shows, traveled globally to perform due diligence on the water sector, researched 
how to combat pollution, and presented at the 2018 American  
Water Summit. 
JANET GLAZER 
PORTFOLIO MANAGER 
WATER SUSTAINABILITY FUND
What’s Next?
“
I take great responsibility in my 
Active stewardship role helping to establish our own 
perspectives on what ESG issues 
We will continue to engage regularly with our portfolio 
companies to promote productive dialogue about  are material when evaluating 
sustainability and help us be strong stewards of our  companies. We then use that 
shareholders’ investments. information to develop our own 
ESG ratings that help guide our 
portfolio managers in investment 
selection and sizing. As we engage 
Knowledge and education
with companies on these complex 
We remain focused on providing educational ESG  and nuanced issues, I’m optimistic 
resources and insights to our investment teams, 
that we will continue making a 
understanding that together we can engage in 
difference on behalf of our clients 
and support Fidelity’s ESG efforts on behalf of our 
and shareholders.”
shareholders.
DAVID KING 
HEAD OF ESG STEWARDSHIP
ESG integration into the investment process
By further developing our proprietary ESG ratings, which 
are important components of our fundamental research, 
we will continue to identify companies on a path toward 
improving their ESG profile.
Product development
Our commitment to ESG evaluation will foster the 
development of more solutions that respond to evolving 
customer preferences.
Report on Investment Sustainability and Impact   |   31
Endnotes 
1 As of Sep. 30, 2020.
2 Source: IEA.org, The UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report “Mitigation Pathways Compatible with 1.5°C in the Context of Sustainable 
Development,” Fidelity Investments, as of Dec. 31, 2018.
3 See endnote 1.
4  Based on the most recent proxy disclosure year: Jul. 1, 2019, through Jun. 30, 2020.
5 Source: “Delivering through diversity” (2018), McKinsey & Company.
6 Source: FactSet, Fidelity Investments, as of Nov. 18, 2020.
7 Source: Company call transcripts, validated by WSM, as of Nov. 19, 2020.
8 See endnote 7.
9 Industry size estimated by Global Water Intelligence (GWI) and represents capital expenditures and operating expenditures by global customers. GWI’s country-
level forecast is calculated by adding up forecasts for capital expenditure and operating expenditure in each sector. GWI divides its capital expenditure forecast 
by application and technology based on the most prevalent options in each sector, and divides its operating expenditure forecast by application and spending 
category. Source GWI, as of July 2020.
10 Safely managed drinking water: Drinking water from sources located on premises, free from contamination, and available when needed. Source: UNICEF, World 
Health Organization, World Economic Forum (water-stressed countries data), as of Jun. 2019. World Economic Forum data as of Mar. 2020.
11 Source: “Xylem Sustainability Report 2019: Water for a Healthy World,” https://www.xylem.com/siteassets/sustainability/2019/xylem-2019-sustainability-report.pdf.
Information presented herein is for discussion and illustrative purposes only and is not a recommendation or an offer or solicitation to buy or sell any securities. 
Views expressed are as of April 2021, based on the information available at that time, and may change based on market and other conditions. Unless otherwise 
noted, the opinions provided are those of the authors and not necessarily those of Fidelity Investments or its affiliates. Fidelity does not assume any duty to 
update any of the information. 
Not FDIC Insured • May Lose Value • No Bank Guarantee
Not NCUA or NCUSIF insured. May lose value. No credit union guarantee.
Information provided in this document is for informational and educational purposes only. To the extent any investment information in this material is deemed to 
be a recommendation, it is not meant to be impartial investment advice or advice in a fiduciary capacity and is not intended to be used as a primary basis for you 
or your client’s investment decisions. Fidelity and its representatives may have a conflict of interest in the products or services mentioned in this material because 
they have a financial interest in them, and receive compensation, directly or indirectly, in connection with the management, distribution, and/or servicing of these 
products or services, including Fidelity funds, certain third-party funds and products, and certain investment services.
Fidelity does not provide tax or legal advice. Employee benefit plans may wish to consult with their ERISA counsel regarding the evaluation of investment or 
investment courses of action that incorporate non-pecuniary factors.
Investing involves risk, including risk of loss. Past performance is no guarantee of future results. 
Diversification and asset allocation do not ensure a profit or guarantee against loss. 
It is not possible to invest directly in an index. All market indices are unmanaged. 
Investment decisions should be based on an individual’s own goals, time horizon, and tolerance for risk.
Stock markets are volatile and can decline significantly in response to adverse issuer, political, regulatory, market, or economic developments.
Although bonds generally present less short-term risk and volatility than stocks, bonds do contain interest rate risk (as interest rates rise, bond prices usually fall, 
and vice versa) and the risk of default, or the risk that an issuer will be unable to make income or principal payments.
Additionally, bonds and short-term investments entail greater inflation risk—or the risk that the return of an investment will not keep up with increases in the 
prices of goods and services—than stocks. Increases in real interest rates can cause the price of inflation-protected debt securities to decrease.
Because of its narrow focus, sector investing tends to be more volatile than investments that diversify across many sectors and companies. Sector investing is 
also subject to the additional risks associated with its particular industry.
The stocks mentioned are for illustrative purposes only and not necessarily current holdings invested in by Fidelity Investments. References to specific company 
stocks should not be construed as recommendations or investment advice. The statements and opinions are subject to change at any time, based on market and 
other conditions.
Investing based on environmental, social and corporate governance (“ESG”) factors may cause a strategy to forgo certain investment opportunities available to 
strategies that do not use such criteria. Because of the subjective nature of ESG investing, there can be no guarantee that ESG criteria used by Fidelity in its ESG 
strategies will reflect the beliefs or values of any particular client. Additionally, Fidelity must rely upon ESG-related information and data obtained through third-
party reporting that may be incomplete or inaccurate, which could result in Fidelity imprecisely evaluating an issuer’s practices with respect to ESG factors.
Third parties mentioned are an independent entities and not affiliated with Fidelity Investments. Third-party trademarks and service marks are the property 
of their respective owners. All other trademarks and service marks are the property of FMR LLC or an affiliated company.
S&P 500® is a market capitalization-weighted index of 500 common stocks chosen for market size, liquidity, and industry group representation to represent 
U.S. equity performance.
Women’s Leadership Fund Stock markets, especially foreign markets, are volatile and can decline significantly in response to adverse issuer, political, regulatory, 
market, or economic developments. Foreign securities are subject to interest rate, currency exchange rate, economic, and political risks. The Adviser’s 
applications of the fund’s strategy criteria may not achieve its intended results and the fund could underperform the market as a whole. 
Fidelity Water Sustainability Fund Stock markets are volatile and can decline significantly in response to adverse issuer, political, regulatory, market, or 
economic developments. Different parts of the market, including different market sectors, and different types of securities can react differently to these 
developments. Foreign markets, particularly emerging markets, can be more volatile than the U.S. market due to increased risks of adverse issuer, political, 
regulatory, market, or economic developments and can perform differently from the U.S. market. Emerging markets can be subject to greater social, economic, 
regulatory, and political uncertainties and can be extremely volatile. Foreign exchange rates also can be extremely volatile. The water sustainability theme can 
be significantly affected by demographic, irrigation and industrial usage trends, viability of infrastructure projects, conservation practices, pollution, waste, and 
environmental factors, including weather, droughts, and flooding, as well as the performance of the overall economy, interest rates, consumer confidence, and 
the cost of commodities. Regulations and policies of various domestic and foreign governments may affect water usage, contamination, and reusability. The value 
of an individual security or particular type of security can be more volatile than, and can perform differently from, the market as a whole. The value of securities of 
smaller issuers can be more volatile than that of larger issuers. 
Before investing, consider the fund’s investment objectives, risks, charges, and expenses. Contact your investment 
professional or visit fidelity.com, i.fidelity.com, or 401k.com for a prospectus, or a summary prospectus if available, containing 
this information. Read it carefully.
Fidelity InstitutionalSM provides investment products through Fidelity Distributors Company LLC; clearing, custody, or other brokerage services through 
National Financial Services LLC or Fidelity Brokerage Services LLC (Members NYSE, SIPC); and institutional advisory services through Fidelity Institutional 
Wealth Adviser LLC. 
Personal and workplace investment products are provided by Fidelity Brokerage Services LLC, Member NYSE, SIPC.
Institutional asset management is provided by FIAM LLC and Fidelity Institutional Asset Management Trust Company.
© 2021 FMR LLC. All rights reserved. 
956122.2.0