
ORDIC SWAN ECOLAB
N EL
Investment Funds
3101 0020
Pareto ESG Global Corporate Bond
Sustainability report
1 January – 31 December 2020
2
Sustainable investments
In Pareto Asset Management we spend ever more time  factors are integrated in the investment process to  mistakes, we learn from our mistakes, and we have to 
thinking about what we want our investment activity to  better manage risks and opportunities. admit that we still have a lot to learn.
achieve. We think of this as responsible investing. In 
as much as our portfolio management has a decidedly  We believe that our management philosophy is well 
long-term perspective, it is only natural that we take  suited for this purpose. Active management, thorough  You can find more information about the Pareto ESG 
environmental, social and governance aspects into  analyses of a limited number of companies and a  Global Corporate Bond fund and its sustainability work 
account. We encourage issuers to offer responsible  long-term  perspective  form  a  good  starting  point  at  paretoam.com/en/pareto-esg-global-corporate-bond. 
and  transparent  practices  and  we  do  not  make  for sustainable investments. If you are serious about  Additionally, you can access more information about 
investments which constitute an unacceptable risk of  achieving something by way of your investments, you  Pareto  Asset  Management’s  sustainability  work  at 
contributing to unethical acts or omissions.  just can’t invest blindly in a broad-based index. paretoam.com/en/about-us.
Our  view  is  that  acting  responsibly  is  a  basic  Sustainable  investment,  however,  is  a  demanding 
requirement  for  long-term  and  sustainable  value  exercise. It raises a lot of dilemmas and provides 
creation. Responsible investment to us means that  no clear answers, and it requires a lot of subjective 
environmental,  social  and  corporate  governance  judgement. It also entails  erring on our part. We make  Historical returns are no guarantee for future returns. 
Investment team 
Finn Øystein Bergh Stefan Ericson Mathias Lundmark Nawel Boukedroun
Chief Economist & Strategist Senior Portfolio Manager Portfolio Manager ESG Analyst
3
About Pareto ESG Global Corporate Bond
In 2018, Pareto Global Corporate Bond became the first  company operates in the cement industry, which is one  Targeting Performance and Sustainable 
fixed income fund in Norway and Sweden to receive  of the two largest producers of carbon dioxide (between  Development
the Nordic Swan Ecolabel. A dedicated ESG analyst is  6 and 8% of the worldwide emissions, according to 
working full time for the fund in order to fulfil the strict  United Nations Climate Change Conferences. This led  EXCLUDE
requirements of the Nordic Swan Ecolabel. In 2020,  to the holding being sold.
in order to align the name with the ESG investment  Restrict investment in issuers fundamentally 
process, the latest prospectus update provided the  Hannon Armstrong Sustainable Infrastructure, the  misaligned with sustainability practices.
new name of the fund: Pareto Global Corporate Bond  first U.S public company focused on investment for  • Fossil fuels • Pornography
became Pareto ESG Global Corporate Bond. climate change solutions, is one example we would  • Controversial weapons • Violating selected
like to highlight. The company is dedicated to investing  • Conventional weapons international norms and
Being a Nordic Swan Ecolabelled fund, Pareto ESG  in climate change solutions and provides capital to  • Tobacco conventions*
Global  Corporate  Bond  is  highly  selective  when  leading companies regarding energy efficiency and 
including  companies  in  its  investment  universe.  has a commitment to implement the recommendations 
The investment strategy utilises “negative selection  from  the  “TCFD”  (Task  force  on  climate  related 
INCLUDE
criteria” where some sectors are excluded.  financial disclosures). Hannon Armstrong has applied 
a clear and transparent set of policies when evaluating 
Increase investments in companies with good 
As a start, we automatically exclude any company  the  environmental  risks  and  opportunities  of  any 
sustainability performance.
included in the Norwegian Government Pension Fund  proposed investment. 
Internal ESG assessment
exclusion list. You can find more information on the 
• 100% of the direct • ESG management system
exclusion  process  in  our  company  sustainability  The international leader in eco-responsible transport, 
holdings in the portfolio, is documented and verified
report.  In  addition,  we  further  exclude  companies  Getlink (ex- Eurotunnel), is another example in which 
have undergone internal by Nordic Ecolabelling
based on our own assessment and the Swan Ecolabel  we have chosen to invest for its sustainable business 
ESG analysis
requirements.  model. The Group strives for continuous reductions of 
CO2 emissions by enabling trains to use the tunnel. This 
We continue contributing to the discussion and will  way, GetLink is contributing to the shift from short-haul 
revise and enhance our framework when appropriate  air travel to rail between France and Britain. Brexit  DIALOGUE
as international standards develop further. does involve some risks coming up, but Getlink is also 
Engage with issuers to question ESG-related business 
part  of  the  solution  through  cooperation.  In  a 
practices.
ESG activities   world  filled  with  conflicts,  the  company  is  also  a 
As we are aware that the global warming impact is  symbol  of  future  improvements  in  UK  and  Sample dialogue questions social impact of your 
one of the most significant challenges of our time, we  European relations. They  are  currently  working  on  • What steps are taken to supply chain?
continue to look for reduction of the carbon impact of  the  replacement  of  diesel-powered locomotives by  limit GHG production? • Do you have an ethics
the portfolio. One recent example is U.S. Concrete. The  hybrid battery ones.  • How do you gauge the or sustainability
committee?
* labour law: ILO, human rights, gross corruption and serious environmental breaches
4
About the Nordic Swan Ecolabel
A  Nordic  Swan  Ecolabelled  fund  represents  a  • The fund conducts an extensive ESG (Environmental,  • The  Nordic  Swan  Ecolabel  is  an  evolutive  label
sustainability-labelled  alternative  for  savers  and  Social  and  Governance)  analysis  of  its  potential which updates its rules in order to be in line with
professional investors, and an instrument for fund  investments  and  prioritizes  companies  that  are the new regulations. Its role of engagement will
management  companies  to  show  that  their  funds  more sustainable. become more structured. This applies to us as bond
fulfill stringent requirements. Everything that a Nordic  investors as well.
Swan Ecolabelled fund must attain – the exclusion  • Nordic Ecolabelling encourages active ownership
of unsustainable companies, the inclusion of more  and  rewards  funds  that  engage  with  investee The Nordic Swan Ecolabel does not imply that all of the 
sustainable companies and acting in a transparent  companies. fund’s companies are sustainable or without problems 
manner – is undertaken to encourage companies and  or  challenges. The aim of the requirements is to 
capital markets to act more sustainably in the long run. make your investment in a Nordic Ecolabelled fund 
Why choose the  move markets, industries and companies in a more 
*The application of the Swan label is conducted by Nordic Swan Ecolabel?  sustainable direction.
Miljömärkning Sverige AB, which works on behalf of • The Nordic Swan Ecolabel is a very well-known
the government, and which does not represent any and highly respected trademark, especially in the New regulations 
fund industry interests. Nordic region. On March 2020, the “TEG” (Technical Experts Group) 
with the approval of the European Parliament and 
Carrying the Nordic Swan Ecolabel  • The  Nordic  Swan  Ecolabel  is  a  simple  way the European council published the final report on EU 
means that:  of  communicating  environmental  work  and  Taxonomy. These regulations will guide companies in 
• The fund excludes investments in certain industries commitment to customers. the disclosure of non-financial information, meaning 
and companies that are particularly problematic that  the  information  on  sustainability  has  become 
from a sustainability point of view. • The Nordic Swan Ecolabel means that the fulfilment more transparent and structured. Combining this with 
of the criteria has been checked by an external third our evaluation criteria will allow us to reduce further 
• The fund discloses all of its holdings on a quarterly party. This is a unique feature in the Nordic fund the sustainability risk of the fund.
basis.  In  addition,  the  fund  publishes  an  annual market.
report on the sustainability performance of the fund.
5
Sustainability trends
Sustainability  trends  and  driving  forces  keep  •  More  and  more  companies  link  their  long-term  As part of the Nordic Swan Ecolabel and the ESG 
strengthening,  both  as  a  result  of  environmental  sustainability goals and aspirations to the UN’s 17  rating system, we analysed which SDGs companies 
and social changes becoming more evident, and the  global sustainability goals. By selecting some of the  are involved in and how they justify it. We are aware 
response  evolving  from  different  societal  levels  17 sustainability goals, each company can clearly  that  companies  sometimes  make  themselves  look 
–  the  world  community,  regions  and  countries,  highlight which sustainability issues or areas they  better than they are, so we work to get a clear vision 
municipalities and consumers. The political agenda is  have  chosen  to  prioritise  in  their  sustainability  of what they really do. This allows us to know how 
clear and supported at the highest level through the  work. The companies’ focus areas are often, given  the fund indirectly participates in the achievement of 
Paris Agreement and the UN Sustainable Development  their business operations, where they believe they  these goals. As of December 2020, 64% of companies 
Goals (SDGs), Agenda 2030. best  can  contribute  to  the  transition  towards  a  in the fund are committed to at least one goal and have 
sustainable development and a sustainable society.   relevant justification to walk the talk. 
Through our company dialogues, we have identified 
several trends in the area of sustainability:
•  Generally,  sustainability  is  gradually  becoming  Pareto ESG Global Corporate Bond SDGs exposure
an  integral  part  of  their  business.  It  seems 
increasingly important to be able to show that you  % 
are a sustainable company, taking responsibility  ISSUERS
for both the environment and the people in their 
environment.
•  Sustainability is seen as a business opportunity, 
which  can  both  strengthen  the  company’s 
competitiveness and improve profitability.
•  The  companies’  customers  place  increasing 
demands on sustainable products and solutions. 
As  the  number  of  sustainable  options  for 
customers  increase,  businesses  are  forced  to 
work  actively  and  purposefully  with  sustainable 
issues  in  order  to  remain  competitive.  
SDGs
6
Top 3 contribution:
38% of our issuers can verify through concrete  29% of our issuers can verify through concrete actions  24% of our issuers work actively to offer employees 
actions how they work positively / reduce the  how they work positively / reduce the negative impact  or clients (ex: health industry) good health and 
negative impact related to the climate matter. of their production. wellbeing.
7
Green bonds Positive impact of the fund
The concept of green bonds has been growing in popularity over the  In order to be in line with the Green Bond Principles, the second-party opinion ensures 
past years. This is the result of concerns about the negative impacts  that companies that have issued a green bond publish a report on their Green use 
of climate change. This segment of the bond universe  has gained  of proceeds. This reporting includes information on emissions avoided through the 
recognition through its potential in enabling entities to get and manage  Green project. Avoided emissions is a climate impact indicator expressed in tonnes 
financing in order to improve sustainability in their organisation.  of CO2 equivalent. This is the difference between the emissions saved by the project 
and those induced by a fictive situation, called the reference situation, in which the 
During the period we have taken part in several high yield green bond  project would not have been carried out. 
issues. Our fund universe for green bonds has therefore grown. We 
have been able to find a broader spectrum of sectors to invest in. The  This indicator enables us to measure the sustainable impact of our investments.
percentage of green bonds in the fund has grown from 2.2% to 15.5%.
CO2 emissions avoided
Green bonds evolution
* The amount of emissions avoided is based on the data reported by the 
companies  (4/14 Green projects). Since we took part in several green bonds in 
2020, not all companies have published the relevant reports.
8
Top 10 holdings
Company description Sustainable development Sustainability risk Link to website Weight (%)
UPM leads the forest-based  Consistent work in the area  Changes in operating  upm.com 4.0%
bioindustry into a sustainable,  of responsibility has received  environment.
innovation-driven, and exciting  recognition from third parties. UMP 
future across six business areas. creates renewable and responsible 
solutions that replace fossil-based 
materials.
Eurofins provides analytical testing  Formal sustainability program  Absence of split CEO and  eurofins.com 3.2%
services to pharmaceutical, food,  that has shown successful strides  chairman.
environmental and consumer  towards lowering its environmental 
products industries and  impact and increasing its positive 
governments. impact. Signatory to the UN Global 
Compact.
Energizer is one of the clear  Energizer is committed to finding a  Environemental impact. energizer.com 2.9%
marketleaders and recognized  plastic-free packaging solution for all 
markers of dry cell batteries  of its battery products by the end of 
globally. 2020.
Second largest producer of spun  JH offers its customers sustainable  Environmental impact. jacob-holm.com 2.8%
lace nonwoven fabrics and is  product options – including natural 
recognised as a leading innovator in  resources. Forest Stewardship 
the nonwoven industry. Council certification system 
manufacturing sites guaranteeing 
raw materials produced from forests 
are handled responsibly.
A global logistics organisation  SGL has at all times conducted  Environmental impact  scangl.com 2.6%
offering the complete range of  business according to the ILO  and economic 
transport and logistics, focusing  conventions and UN Human Rights  instability.
on providing personal advice and  stipulations. Signatory to the UN 
tailor-made logistics solutions. Global Compact.
Updated: 31 December 2020
9
Company description Sustainable development Sustainability risk Link to website Weight (%)
Leading European energy  Techem’s services and solutions  Changing behavior and  techem.no 2.6%
management Techem provides  offered help to avoid more than 6.5  growing disruption
enhanced efficiency throughout the  million tonnes of CO2–emissions 
entire value chain of heating and  every year. committed with The 
water supply in buildings.  "Allianz für einen klimaneutralen 
Wohngebäudebestand" (Alliance for 
Climate-Neutral Housing).
Iron mountain is dedi-cated to  Iron Mountain is listed on the  Data security and  ironmountain.com 2.3%
storing, pro-tecting, managing  FTSE4Good Index for meeting  privacy.
information destruc-tion, and data  globally recognized corporate social 
backup and recovery services. As  re-sponsibility standards and joined 
of 2016 over 94% of Fortune 1000  the RE100 and commit-ted to 100 
compa-nies use Iron Moun-tain's  percent renewable energy and to 
services. reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
Liberty Global is one of the world’s  The company conducted a materiality  Dependence on regulatory  libertyglobal.com 2.2%
leading converged video, broadband  study with commissioned ESG  approvals for
and communication companies,  experts. It is working on topics  telecom licenses.
known as its  consumer brands:  covering all aspects of sustainable 
Virgin Media, Telenet and UPC. development and reports on 
its progress. Received “Bronze 
class” distinction in the Dow Jones 
Sustainability Index for excellent 
sustainability performance.
Oriflame is a leading beauty  The company has recently updated  Environmental impact. www.oriflame.com 2.2%
company selling beauty products.  its sustainability strategy, for a 
Present in more than 60 countries,  sourcing, source only of renewable 
of which they are the market leader  and recyclable materials. Reports 
in more than half. on sustainability according to GRI* 
standards. 
Intrum offers commercial and  Aims to be the most attractive  Economic instability intrum.com 2.2%
consumer debt collection, debt  employers in its industry. This will be 
surveillance, international debt  done by treating their employees well 
collection, purchased debt services,  and offering the best opportunities. 
sales ledger administration, and  Signatory of the UN Global Compact.
optimization services.
* Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Updated: 31 December 2020
   
Corporate Governance
Environment Society
•  Climate changes •  Responsible working conditions •  Corruption
•  Emissions of greenhouse gases •  Child labour and slavery •  Lobby activities and donations
•  Resource extraction •  Local and indigenous communities •  Board composition and diversity
•  Waste management and pollution •  Conflicts •  Tax strategy
•  Deforestation •  Health and safety •  Management salary
www.paretoam.com