
J
a
p
a
n
 R
e
a
l E
s
ta
te
 In
v
e
s
tm
e
n
t C
o
r
p
o
r
a
tio
n
S
u
s
ta
in
a
b
ility
 R
e
p
o
r
t 2
0
2
0
Sustainability Report 2020
100-0004
Park Building 1-1-1 Otemachi, 
Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-0004, Japan
URL：https://www.j-re.co.jp/en/ Printed in Japan
CONTENTS
02    Table of contents
03    Message from the President
Toward 2030
05   Basic Policy and Management 
About KPIs
Structure of ESG Issues
CO  Emissions*1
2
07   Disclosure Policy, Signatory to 
In 2019, Japan Real Estate Investment 
International Initiatives, and 
Corporation (JRE) became the first 
Evaluations from External Parties
J-REIT to disclose information based on 
the recommendations put forth by the  Reduce  35 11    Environment 
TCFD, and announced environmental  by   Environmental Measures 
KPIs in 2020 to further respond to climate    Climate Change Initiatives 
%
change risks. As a leader in the J-REIT         Green Bonds
industry, JRE will continue to promote 
ESG initiatives in the future.  23   Society 
  Tenants and Partners 
  Local Communities 
  Employees
Carbon Intensity Waste     Non-Financial Data Highlights
Recycling Rate 31   Governance 
  Management System 
  Risk Management
60 90   Compliance System
  kg-CO/m2  
2 37   GRI Content Index
or lower % or higher
45   SASB Framework
Water Usage*2 Zero Energy 
About the JRE ESG Website
Buildings*3 Details regarding this report are posted on JRE’s 
ESG website (external site). 
Reduce by Please refer to it as necessary.  
20 Own  5 10 https://jre-esg.com/en/
~
Disclaimer
% JRE is not liable for any trouble, loss or damage 
 
     caused by actions as made based on judgements 
using the information contained in this report. In 
addition, please note that JRE is not liable for any 
damages caused by falsification of the text, con-
*1 Carbon intensity basis *2 Intensity (m3/m2) basis *3 Includes ZEB Ready and ZEB Oriented buildings tent leaks, unauthorized use by a third party, or 
other accidents that are not its responsibility. 
01 Japan Real Estate Investment Corporation Japan Real Estate Investment Corporation 02
ESG HIGHLIGHTS
Number of   Percentage of  
48 73.9
green building-  green building- 
certified properties certified properties
Properties ％*
* Based on acquisition price
PRI Assessment Result GRESB Real Estate 
A + 5 
Assessment Stars
· Strategy & Governance 
· Property
Prime Status 
ISS ESG Corporate Rating
President & CEO
Message from the President
We have published this sustainability report, the first sustainability  greater society expects us to engage in efforts to improve social    One strong impression that I drew from this experience was  well-being of all stakeholders, including employees and their fami-
report for the Company to disclose to our stakeholders the various  sustainability through enhancing environmental, social and gover- that tenants have become more aware of ESG that I had previously  lies, tenants, those working at property management companies, 
ESG-related initiatives JRE has taken to date. In 2018 JRE-AM  nance related efforts. We believe that these efforts will maximize  thought. There have been an increasing number of companies  construction companies, and those living in local communities, is 
(Japan Real Estate Asset Management Company) established the  long-term returns for unitholders in a listed J-REIT such as JRE. worldwide that make ESG a strong point of consideration in their  of utmost importance.
ESG Office consisting of three to four dedicated members for ESG,    One of the reasons I think that active ESG initiatives will lead to  core businesses. For these companies it is infeasible from a busi-   We have made it our mission to anticipate changes in the busi-
and in the same year, became a signatory to PRI (the United  long-term returns for investors goes back to my experience when I  ness strategy point of view to operate in an office building that does  ness environment and improve the competitiveness of our portfolio 
Nations Principles for Responsible Investment). In 2019, JRE dis- was engaged in office building development at Mitsubishi Estate  not factor in ESG.  constantly, through forward-thinking and proactive asset manage-
closed information in line with the TCFD (Task Force on Climate- London Limited. I was involved with over five newly built office    What this means is that JRE’s active commitment to ESG ini- ment. Our ESG efforts may take some time to bear results, but we 
Related Financial Disclosures) recommendations, making it the  buildings and was always engaged in hot discussions with the  tiatives, coupled with increasing the number of office buildings that  intend to use this sustainability report as a way to regularly share 
first J-REIT to do so. In 2020, we established environmental KPIs to  design teams—teams of experts in design, machine & equipment,  can be opted by a large number of tenants, will lead to long-term  information with our stakeholders and confirm the progress of our 
further address climate change-related risks that include target  structure, cost, and construction management—on how we could  returns for investors. I am confident that this is a win-win situation.  efforts as we work toward our goals. As a leading company in the 
for reducing CO2 emissions by 2030. When determining these KPIs,  acquire as strong BREEAM* rating. When making these decisions,    The global pandemic of COVID-19 in 2020 has had a massive  J-REIT industry, ESG initiatives are JRE’s social responsibility, but 
we set goals that we considered feasible and based on engineering  the question of where to find the balance between the profitability  impact on society and the economy, and there is no clear exit at  not only are we eager to take on these initiatives, but also to lead to 
studies and factoring in additional renewal costs. We are proud to  of an investment and its environmental performance of a building  this point. These circumstances have been a reminder for many  long-term returns for unitholders.
be lauded as the front running J-REIT in ESG initiatives as a result  has always been a difficult one. On the other hand, even if costs  that collaboration, coexistence, and both giving and receiving help 
*  Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method, the 
of these efforts.  increased a little, the best tenants were almost always willing to  from various stakeholders are important for sustainable growth. It 
ubiquitous sustainability rating for buildings in the UK.
   At JRE-AM, proactive ESG initiatives have been one of the top  pay a higher rent than usual to move into an office building if it  has been a strong reminder for us as well, that the health and 
priorities of its management strategy. This is not only because  meant giving due consideration to the environment and comfort. 
03 Japan Real Estate Investment Corporation Japan Real Estate Investment Corporation 04
Basic Policy and Management Structure of ESG Issues
Sustainability Committee 
JRE-AM convenes its Sustainability Committee with a view to implementing the Sustainability Policy in order to improve 
Basic Policy and Management Structure of ESG Issues sustainability and maximize its unitholder value.
JRE is committed to endeavoring to enhance consideration towards the environment, social contributions,  Members of the committee: Reporting details, meeting frequency, and examination process:
and corporate governance to improve the sustainability of society. We recognize that this is an important  President & CEO (Chief Sustainability Officer) The Sustainability Committee meets four times a year in principle and 
social responsibility for a listed enterprise to assume, and also believe that it is essential for maximizing our  Head of ESG Office, Real Estate Management Department  executes the PDCA cycle by examining and planning measures, 
unitholder value. (Sustainability Officer) reporting and evaluating the progress and analysis results, and 
  To put our commitment into practice based on the above recognition, JRE-AM has established its  then examining and planning improvement actions, thereby 
General Managers of other departments and those practically in 
Sustainability Policy to communicate its priority issues and basic policies on sustainability with regard to its  making improvements on a continual basis.
charge of sustainability at each department
real estate investment management. Under the Policy, we implement various initiatives, including environ-   For the matters examined by the Sustainability Committee, 
mental impact reduction through facility upgrades and acquisition of Green Building certifications, as well as  JRE-AM makes decisions and implements measures based on its 
contribution actions to the local communities. decision making rules, and the results are reported to JRE’s 
Board of Directors once a year.
Sustainability Policy Policy for Implementing the Sustainability Policy
 Energy Conservation Policy
1  Contribution to creating a low-carbon society 5 Initiatives aimed at officers and employees
  GHG Emissions Reduction Policy 
In order to contribute to creating a low-carbon society, we  We will provide education and training programs for officers 
Based on our Sustainability Policy, we have set targets for reducing energy consumption and greenhouse 
will proactively promote efficient use of energy, mainly by  and employees to raise environmental awareness and build 
gas emissions to improve the performance of our real estate portfolio. To achieve these goals, we will 
improving operation systems and introducing appropriate  capacity, as well as support a diverse human workforce and 
implement initiatives such as improving building operations, updating to energy efficient equipment, and 
facilities to increase energy conservation. flexible work styles to meet individual lifestyles.
informing tenants about energy conservation.
2 Contribution to creating a recycling-oriented society 6 Collaboration with external stakeholders
  Green Procurement Policy 
In order to contribute to creating a recycling-oriented soci- We will collaborate with property management companies 
We have established a “Green Procurement Policy” to promote sustainability initiatives in the supply chain. 
ety, we will promote efficient use of water resources as well  and other suppliers to work together to increase tenant sat-
This policy serves as a guideline for selection criteria for products to be procured and selection and evaluation 
as implementing Reduce, Reuse and Recycling initiatives. isfaction and build harmonious relationships with local 
criteria for suppliers.
communities.
3  Contribution to creating a society in harmony with nature
  Basic Concepts of Health and Well-being of JRE-AM’s Officers and Employees 
In order to contribute to creating a society in harmony with  7  Information disclosure and obtaining environmental 
Our human capital such as officers or employees is one of the most important operation source for us to 
nature, we will support efforts aimed at living harmoniously  certifications
realize sustainable growth. Based on this idea, we will practice the corporate management which enables 
with the natural environment through planting initiatives  We will endeavor to disclose ESG (Environment, Society and 
co-enrichment of the company and employees through initiatives to raise physical and mental health of 
conducive to biodiversity conservation. Governance)-related information to our investors and vari-
employees, and to promote work-life balance and improve job satisfaction.
ous other stakeholders. Also, we will work to obtain environ-
4 Enhancement of safety and security
As part of disaster prevention and response initiatives, we  mental certifications and ratings, including the Green    Basic Concepts of Health and Well-being of Tenant Workers 
will organize emergency drills based on public-private part- Building certification, on a continuous basis. We strive to enhance value and competitiveness of JRE’s assets through providing office buildings promot-
nerships, and develop business continuity plans. ing health and well-being for tenant workers and increasing their productivity and satisfaction.
As stated above, we will develop sustainability promotion systems, comply with laws, regulations, and other rules pertaining to ESG, and 
implement sustainability initiatives, thereby contributing to creating a sustainable society through real estate management business.
05 Japan Real Estate Investment Corporation Japan Real Estate Investment Corporation 06
Disclosure Policy, Signatory to International Initiatives, 
and Evaluations from External Parties
Signatory to the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI)
governance issues into investment decision-making processes, with 
Disclosure Policy, Signatory to International Initiatives,  the aim to help companies enhance long-term investment perfor-
mance and better fulfill their fiduciary duty. 
and Evaluations from External Parties
  JRE-AM became a signatory in August 2018 in solidarity with 
JRE-AM attaches great importance to ESG-conscious investing in order to continuously improve the value of  the basic approach of PRI. 
assets under management, and is a signatory or participant in the following international initiatives, and will  PRI comprises an international network of investor signatories and 
actively engage in initiatives and disclosure in line with these frameworks. encourages the incorporation of environment, social, and 
  In addition, several of JRE-AM’s ESG initiatives have been evaluated highly by external organizations in 
Japan and overseas. Going forward, we will maximize long-term returns by strengthening our  environmental, 
social, and governance initiatives. Signatory to United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI)
institutions, policymakers, and regulatory authorities to promote 
a shift to a financial system that integrates economic growth and 
consideration for ESG issues.
  JRE-AM agreed with the basic approach of UNEP FI and 
became a signatory in August 2018. It also participates in the 
UNEP FI is a broad-based and closely knit partnership between  UNEP FI Property Working Group. As of March 2020, this working 
UNEP and more than 200 banks, insurance, and securities com- group consisted of approximately 30 representative real estate 
panies around the world to promote sustainable finance. Since it  institutions in the world and promotes and encourages 
Information Disclosure Policy 
was established in 1992, it has cooperated with financial  Responsible Property Investment (RPI).
JRE strives to disclose ESG-related information to its investors and    Specifically, we refer to the Global Reporting Initiative 
other stakeholders.  Standards (GRI Standards), an international sustainability frame-
Participation in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC)
  As ESG garners more support globally, JRE also regards it as  work for ESG-related reporting, and standard for the real estate 
its social responsibility to improve its sustainability and disclose  industry put forth by the Sustainability Accounting Standards  UNGC is a voluntary, global initiative sup- organizations and companies based in 160 countries. It engages in 
initiatives in pursuit of that goal, both of which are necessary to  Board (SASB) for the disclosure of a wide range of ESG informa- porting a global framework for sustainable  activities based on ten universally accepted principles in the four 
maximize its unitholder value. Accordingly, we will promote ESG ini- tion on the JRE corporate website. We hope both this report and  growth through the demonstration of cre- areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption.
tiatives and the ESG information disclosure while fostering mutual  our corporate website will further deepen understanding of JRE’s  ative, responsible leadership by the    Mitsubishi Estate Co., Ltd. became a signatory of the UNGC 
communication with various stakeholders. ESG activities.  respective corporations and organizations  and the Mitsubishi Estate Group was registered as a participant 
as principled members of society. in April 2018. Along with this, JRE-AM has participated in this ini-
Reporting scope and period   First proposed in 1999, participants  tiative as a member of the Mitsubishi Estate Group.
In principle, the reporting scope shall be JRE’s entire portfolio and the report will be made every year. currently includes more than 13,000 
  The current reporting period is the fiscal year that started on April 1, 2019 and ended on March 31, 2020, but the report for the year 
does include some information outside this period.
GRESB Ratings
JRE received the following evaluations in GRESB Real Estate Assessment” and GRESB Public 
International Initiatives 
Disclosure conducted in 2019, with a first place ranking among the listed and unlisted office sector 
in Japan.
International Initiatives to which JRE-AM is Signatory or Participant
JRE-AM has become a signatory to the following international initiatives and participated in UNGC based on the idea that asset manage-
ESG management system and  Green Star 
ment considering ESG is essential to sustainable asset value growth.
performance (highest evaluation)
Real estate assessment
5 Stars 
Overall score
(highest evaluation)
Signatory to PRI Signatory to UNEP FI Participation in UNGC
A  
Disclosure assessment Information disclosure level
(highest evaluation)
07 Japan Real Estate Investment Corporation Japan Real Estate Investment Corporation 08
Disclosure Policy, Signatory to International Initiatives, 
and Evaluations from External Parties
Selected as Sustainability Champion at the Milestone of 10 Years  MSCI ESG Rating
Sustainability-related initiatives that have been highly  
of GRESB
evaluated are as follows: Evaluations industry-specific environmental,  social, and governance (ESG) 
As a member of the international initiative, JRE-AM has been 
JRE holds an MSCI Rating of “BBB” as of July 2020.  risks and their ability to manage those ESG risks. 
•  Issuance of green bonds to fund the refurbishment project of  working for greater sustainability by networking and sharing 
  MSCI ESG Ratings are used by over 1,300 investors worldwide 
the existing property which improves energy efficiency information with companies that are advanced in terms of ESG as 
About the MSCI ESG Ratings and as the foundation of over 1,000 investment indexes, such as the 
•  Obtaining third-party assurance (by Ernst & Young ShinNihon  well as by showcasing Japanese practices to the global commu-
MSCI ESG Ratings by MSCI ESG Research LLC comprise a rating  MSCI Japan ESG Select Leaders Index, which has been selected as 
LLC) on energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions and  nity. In December 2019, our Head of the ESG Office was selected 
system where companies are rated on a seven-tier scale ranging  an ESG index for passive investment tracking by the Government 
water usage data as one of the sustainability champions at the milestone of 10 
from ‘AAA’ (highest) to ‘CCC’ (lowest) according to their exposure to  Pension Investment Fund (GPIF).
•  More than 70% of the company’s portfolio is green certified years of GRESB.
•  Enhancement of a cooperative relationship with tenants (e.g., 
promoting green lease program and conducting tenant satis- About GRESB 
Achieved Institutional Shareholder Service (ISS) ESG Corporate Rating “Prime” Status
faction surveys)
The Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB) was 
•  Promoting health & well-being initiative for tenant/customer  established in 2009 by a group of pension funds in Europe. The  About the ISS ESG Corporate Rating
and community
GRESB assessment does not target individual real estate, but is  JRE achieved ISS ESG Corporate Rating Prime status in March 
characterized by evaluating consideration for the environment and  2020. ISS highly noted JRE for eco efficiency, climate change 
sustainability efforts at each real estate company and REIT. strategy, and environmental management. Prime status compa-
nies are regarded as sustainability leaders in their industry.
PRI Assessment Result
About the PRI Assessment Result
Module Score
ESG Finance Award
Strategy & Governance A+
Winning the ESG Finance Award About the ESG Finance Award
JRE Investment Corporation Bonds (JRE Green Bonds) won  The ESG Finance Award is an award program launched in 2019 by 
Property A+
bronze at the Ministry of the Environment’s inaugural ESG  the Ministry of the Environment  to recognize those investors and 
Finance Awards in February 2020 financial institutions that have been actively involved in promoting 
PRI signatories are required to report annually on the status of 
their ESG integration practices for evaluation. JRE-AM has  * The rating system is a 6-rank scale (A+, A, B, C, D and E.) green projects and contributed toward creating positive impacts 
on the environment and society. The award program also cele-
received the highest “A+” rating in 2020 as shown at right. This is 
brates outstanding company initiatives which have incorporated 
the highest result among all signatories worldwide.
significant environmental risks and opportunities into their cor-
porate strategies while also enhancing their corporate values and 
Participation in the CDP’s Climate Change Program having a positive impact on the environment.
CDP Score support of institutional investors around the world. CDP has 
gradually come under the spotlight in recent years as a private- Efforts to Acquire Environmental Certifications
sector effort working to ensure the effectiveness of the Paris 
JRE will continue to acquire various green building certifications, 
Agreement. Since 2003, CDP has been sending out question-
including DBJ Green Building certifications, and CASBEE 
naires to major companies around the world seeking the disclo-
DISCLOSURE INSIGHT ACTION certifications. 
sure of information with relation to areas such as business risks 
  As of March 2020, over 70% of our portfolio has been green 
JRE has received the “B” designation in the 2019 Carbon  and opportunities coming about due to greenhouse gas emis-
certified, obtaining one or more certifications out of DBJ Green 
Disclosure Project (“CDP”) Climate Change Program. sions and climate change. CDP then assesses corporate actions 
Building certification, CASBEE certification, as well as BELS 
being taken against the issue of climate change based on their 
certification.
About CDP responses. In terms of assessments, there are eight grades; A, 
CDP is an international non-profit organization researching mea- A-, B, B-, C, C-, D, and D-. JRE has participated in the CDP 
sures taken against global warming by listed companies with the  Climate Change Program since 2018.
09 Japan Real Estate Investment Corporation Japan Real Estate Investment Corporation 10
Environment
KPIs and Strategies to Reach Targets
JRE established KPIs  
CO2 Emissions*1  Water Usage *2 
in line with SDGs to help  
35 20
realize a sustainable society. 
Reduce by  % Reduce by  %
Zero Energy
Buildings*3
5~10
Own 
Carbon Intensity  Waste Recycling Rate 
60 90
Environment  kg-CO2/m2 or lower % or higher
JRE implements measures to improve the environmental 
performance of its real estate portfolio based on the  KPIs to Reduce CO2 Emissions KPIs for Water  
Sustainability Policy items “1. Contribution to creating a  JRE has set KPIs to reduce energy and  and Waste Management
low-carbon society” and “2. Contribution to creating  CO2 emissions generated from  JRE supports the “SDGs (Sustainable 
our portfolio by 2030 from a 2013 base  Development Goals)” adopted by the 
a recycling-oriented society.” year. We will continue to proactively  United Nations and has established 
address climate change. related KPIs for 2030.
P12  Environmental Measures
P15  Climate Change Initiatives
P21  Green Bonds
*1 Carbon intensity basis *2 Intensity (m3/m2) basis *3 Includes ZEB Ready and ZEB Oriented buildings
Fiscal 2013 (base year) Fiscal 2019 Fiscal 2030 targets
79.7 60
kg-CO2/m2 kg-CO2/m2 or lower
 Carbon Intensity 92.1kg-CO2/m2
13.5 35
Reduce by  % Reduce by  %
Water Usage 0.793 15.5 20
  m3/m2 Reduce by  % Reduce by  %
Waste Recycling Rate — 57.7 90
  %*4 % or higher
*4 The data accuracy is being examined.
11 Japan Real Estate Investment Corporation Japan Real Estate Investment Corporation 12
Environmental Measures
Contributions to the Environment through Real Estate Investment Management Green Procurement Policy
 Energy Management Systems (EMS) JRE-AM has set the Green Procurement Policy as one of the poli- selection of products to be procured by JRE-AM as well as on the 
Grasping Accurate Data and Executing a PDCA Cycle This is not a matter of simply circulating documents. Instead,  cies to implement the specific items put forth in the Sustainability  selection and evaluation of suppliers. JRE-AM promotes sustain-
JRE measures and gains an understanding of the energy con- these indicators are reported and analyzed at meetings and are  Policy. The Green Procurement Policy provides guidelines on the  ability measures across its supply chain based on this policy.
sumption, water use, and waste of each building on a monthly  an important part of decision-making for future asset manage-
basis. We outsource data calculation and data analysis to a com- ment and CAPEX investments.
pany specializing in EMS to execute its PDCA cycle. If there is a   PM Company Selection Criteria and Evaluation Measures
large difference in the aggregated data from the previous month  PDCA Cycle for Environmental Data
JRE has established selection criteria for property management  employees, and understanding of and cooperation with the 
or year, we investigate the cause by conducting interviews with the 
(PM) companies to which it commissions the management  Sustainability Policy set by JRE-AM. Moreover, JRE requests the 
property manager and ensuring accurate data. We also con-
of properties, and evaluates all of the PM companies once a year,  PM companies to make proposals to help JRE reduce environ-
stantly monitor the reduction effects of green refurbishments 
Execute  in principle. In addition to the companies’ building  mental impacts, such as energy efficiency measures in buildings. 
such as LED and AC upgrades.  Establish  Asset-level initiatives plans and  management and maintenance abilities, JRE evaluates the PM  In this way, JRE makes environmental improvement efforts in 
  Aggregated data disclosed in “WEB information” on JRE’s  reduction  make 
targets measure- companies based on their environmental friendliness in terms of  cooperation with the PM companies.
website has been given limited assurance in accordance with ISAE  ments  operations, occupational health and safety measures for their 
3000 (International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000) by  Electricity CO2
a third-party organization (Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC).
Water Waste
Monthly Data Entry, Analysis, and Feedback  Other Measures
Analyze and 
Monthly 
JRE-AM recognizes environmental data aggregated via EMS as  formulate  JRE annually makes contracts with professional firms to conduct energy assessment of a selection of our properties, and utilizes the 
monitoring Monitoring by AM company
an important indicator, as well as performance data. Therefore,  plans results to understand the current level of their energy performance and to formulate improvement plans for the future.
the data and analysis of the various indicators are reported to the 
Chief Sustainability Officer (President & CEO) on a monthly basis. 
  Environmental Contribution in Collaboration  (Examples)
with Tenants
•  Distribution of sustainability guide 
Aiming to make environmental contributions by collaborating  (Please refer to page 25 for more details.)
with tenants, JRE has been gradually introducing Green Leases in  • H  olding Global Warming Prevention Committee with tenants
terms of both operational improvement and efficiency retrofits. • I ntroduction of an online system that enables tenants to 
  Moreover, JRE is conducting diverse sustainability  check their energy use Otemachi Park Building 
initiatives together with our tenants. • P articipation in the energy conservation month campaign and 
energy efficiency promotion on other occasions
Biodiversity Preservation Initiatives
At the Otemachi Park Building, located in the vicinity of the Imperial 
Palace, we have taken biodiversity into consideration, creating homes for 
a variety of flora and fauna by including a variety of trees and bushes, 
 Environmental Risk Assessment at the Time of Acquisition birdhouses, porous stone walls, and waterscapes into the design. 
Under the leadership of our sponsor, Mitsubishi Estate Co., Ltd., we 
When acquiring real estate properties, JRE conducts on-site  appraisal reports and engineering reports in addition to receiv-
conduct monitoring of the living creatures in the area both as part of 
inspections and also investigates on soil contamination and toxic  ing related disclosure materials from the sellers.
our cleaning and plant maintenance duties, and as an activity that the 
substances such as asbestos and PCBs by obtaining real estate 
community can participate in as efforts to visualize the biodiversity net-
work centered on the Imperial Palace and to collect and disseminate 
information aimed at high-quality green space management and 
 Consideration to Urban Greenery and Biodiversity greater environmental awareness.
  In recognition of the efforts to conserve biodiversity in these 
JRE’s Sustainability Policy stipulates that it will support efforts 
spaces, the building has been certified by the Organization for Landscape 
aimed at living harmoniously with the natural environment and 
and Urban Green Infrastructure under the Social and Environmental 
contribute to creating a society in harmony with nature. JRE gives 
Green Evaluation System (SEGES) for creating green spaces. 
consideration to biodiversity in the operation of buildings by 
Furthermore, it has acquired ABINC certification in the urban/SC cat-
endeavoring to conserve and improve the ecosystem on property 
egory, issued by the Association for Business Innovation in Harmony 
premises and adjacent urban green areas and natural areas. with Nature and Community (ABINC).
Hotoria Square
13 Japan Real Estate Investment Corporation Japan Real Estate Investment Corporation 14
Climate Change 
Climate Change Initiatives Climate Change-Related Risks and JRE’s Response
JRE believes that climate change is more than an environmental  stemming from climate change, it is important that we evaluate  The TCFD recommendations broadly categorize climate change-related risks into two types: “transition risks” and “phys-
issue. We also believe that it bears a major influence on social  the risks and opportunities that climate change presents, and  ical risks.” We anticipate that climate change will present various risks and opportunities to JRE that have been reflected 
and industrial structures, and therefore greatly impacts our busi- reflect them in our operational policies and asset management  in our management policy and asset management activities.
ness activities. To maintain sustainable and stable earnings over  accordingly.
the long term and overcome the wave of oncoming changes 
The government of Japan and local municipalities  reduce energy consumption and GHG emissions 
are already making moves to tighten regulations  in their rental spaces. These incentives could 
Global Trends
as a measure against climate change. If policies,  change conditions in the office market.
laws, and regulations are strengthened to keep    Financial institutions and investors are also 
 Global Trends in Climate Action  Supporting the TCFD Recommendations
within the 2°C global temperature limit stated in  incorporating the climate-related risks of their 
The Paris Agreement is an international framework adopted in  The Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD),  Transition  the Paris Agreement, there are concerns that the  investment targets into their investment pro-
2015 and signed by 197 countries, with the goal of limiting global  launched in 2016, has discussed and made recommendations on  Risks outcomes, including regulations on GHG emis- cesses. This may have an effect on business’ pro-
warming to well below 2°C above pre-industrial levels and pursu- how financial institutions and companies should disclose infor- sions that extend to Japan, regulations on  curement of funds.
ing efforts to limit it even further to 1.5°C. It also aims to achieve  mation pertaining to the impact that the above effects of climate  energy-saving capabilities for buildings, and the    To address these “transition risks,” JRE is 
net zero greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by the second half of  change will have on business. At present time, the TCFD recom- introduction of carbon taxes, could have various  promoting a variety of specific measures and 
this century. To achieve these goals, efforts are being made and  mendations have received worldwide support from a great number  impacts on the real estate business. actions, such as Green Projects that reduce GHG 
regulations are being strengthened in many countries and regions  of financial institutions, companies, investors, and governments.   Moreover, as we make the move toward a  emissions or improve energy efficiency, and 
and in every industry, aimed at reducing emissions. Furthermore,    JRE-AM became a supporter of the TCFD in June 2019.  decarbonized society, there is the belief that ten- obtaining green building certifications.
the possibility of even stronger regulations for reducing emis- As a supporter, JRE-AM is now evaluating the risks and opportu- ants of office buildings will be incentivized to 
sions has been also discussed. nities that climate change presents to all of our business and pro-
  The fact of the matter is that climate change (global warm- moting disclosure of climate-related information to our 
ing) was already underway in the latter half of the 20th century,  stakeholders.
according to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 
(IPCC)*. This is starting to become apparent through a growing 
frequency of heatwaves as well as heavy rain and other natural 
disasters. We are expected to respond to these and other physical  CO2 Emissions*1 
risks of climate change as a major issue, as they may bear a  35
Reduction of CO emissions:
2
strong influence on business. Reduce by  %
To respond to the future possibility of even stronger 
* T he IPCC Special Report on Global Warming on 1.5°C, published by the IPCC in 2018. regulations for reducing emissions, such as obligation to 
reduce total emissions or introduction of carbon taxes, 
JRE has set a reduction target for its entire portfolio of 35% 
Governance Related to Climate Change
compared to 2013 to be achieved by 2030.
Zero Energy
JRE-AM convenes its Sustainability Committee, chaired by the President & CEO of JRE-AM. The committee determines risks and oppor-
Reduction of carbon intensity  Buildings*2
tunities related to climate change and investigates and decides on strategies to address these risks and opportunities.
(CO emissions per unit floor area):  5~10
2
Rising awareness on climate change risks has been appear- Own 
ing in not only the real estate industry but in every industry 
around the world. Also, an increasing number of office building 
Carbon Intensity 
tenants have started to make efforts to address climate 
60
change as an important issue. JRE believes that properties 
with high CO2 emissions will decrease in value while proper-  kg-CO2/m2 or lower
ties with high energy efficiency will increase in value as this 
market trend continues.
  By 2030, JRE aims to reduce the average carbon intensity 
of its entire portfolio to 60 kg-CO2/m2 as well as own 5–10 
zero energy buildings (ZEBs).
  We believe improving energy efficiency of each asset will 
* Carbon intensity basis
prevent it from becoming a “stranded asset,” and increase  * Includes ZEB Ready and ZEB Oriented buildings
its value in the market. We will pursue higher profits by 
utilizing ZEB properties and other highly competitive, 
high-performance green buildings to appeal to our tenants.
15 Japan Real Estate Investment Corporation Japan Real Estate Investment Corporation 16
Climate Change 
Due to its geographical circumstances, Japan  include installing water-stopping plates in building  Analysis of JRE’s Portfolio Based on Municipal Hazard Map
experiences typhoons and heavy rain every sum- apertures, preparing sandbags and water-stopping  In recent years, typhoons around the Japanese archipelago have been increasing in size. In addition, river 
mer and an accumulation of snow in the winter.  sheets, and have installed water-proofed doors for  flooding and inundation have been occurring frequently due to typhoons and heavy rains. Damages due to 
This, in conjunction with its susceptibility to earth- underground rooms with important equipment. inundation are predicted by the hazard maps of each local government. These maps are believed to have 
quakes, classifies Japan as a country prone to  high accuracy when compared against actual disaster occurrence.
Physical  many natural disasters. As global warming contin- “Soft” Measures for When Disasters Occur Future Risk    The graph below shows the estimated status of inundation damage in the hazard map of the JRE 
Risks ues on a global scale, there is a possibility that  Disaster countermeasures and training appropriate  Forecast portfolio. 4 
these disasters will become more numerous and  to each type of disaster are implemented by a top-   82% of buildings within JRE’s portfolio (based on the number of buildings) fall under the category of “No 
severe, with a greater financial impact. These  class PM company in Japan. In addition, appropri- inundation damage expected” or “inundation of 0.2m to 0.5m in depth (minor damage expected).”
“physical risks” brought on by major climate  ate “soft” measures have been taken, which include    The remaining 18% of buildings are susceptible to 0.5m of inundation or more, but every building in the 
change are cause for global concern. holding disaster prevention council meetings with  portfolio is subject to hard measures, such as installation of water-stopping plates, and soft measures, 
  In order to mitigate risks toward the profitabil- tenants, distributing BCP manuals, and introducing  such as training on how to stop inundation. 
ity of its portfolio as a result of disaster-related dam- a system between JRE-AM and PMs to assess the 
*  Earthquake risks are generally distinguished from climate change risks, but JRE has combined its climate change and disaster 
ages, JRE employs a strategy to minimize damage  damage in the event of disaster.
countermeasures as part of physical disaster risk management in an effort to increase resiliency. 
in the event of a disaster, and to increase resilience 
against the growing severity of these disasters. 4  Expected Inundation According 
to Hazard Map (%)
“Hard” Measures at Buildings to Address Natural 
Disasters (Typhoons, Heavy Rain) 6.9 4.2
To address flooding caused by typhoons and heavy 
6.9  Over 2m
rain, which affect Japan due to geographical factors,   1m to 2m
we have taken “hard” measures at buildings that   0.5m to 1m
51.4  0.2m to 0.5m
 No damage expected
31.9
As of March 2020
1   Types of Disasters that Have Caused Damage in the Past 
Resilience of JRE Portfolio According to Past 
(number of cases)* As of March 2020
Cases of Disasters and Data
Japan is a country that experiences numerous natural  Extreme weather (hot and cold waves, etc.) 1
disasters. Over the past 10 years, Japan has been 
Earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, and tsunami 23
struck by several catastrophic disasters, such as the 
2011 Great East Japan Earthquake (earthquake and  Inundation and river flooding from heavy rain 8
tsunami), the Heavy Rain Event of July 2018 (heavy 
Typhoons and tornadoes 25
rain, inundation), the 2018 Hokkaido East Iburi 
8·3 Square Kita Building
Earthquake (earthquake, landslides, wide-ranging  * There are 32 properties that have never been affected by disasters.
power outages), and Typhoon Faxai (strong winds, 
house damage, long-term power outages) and  Response to Damage from the Hokkaido Earthquake
Typhoon Hagibis (heavy rain, river collapse, inunda- 2 Time Required for Post-Disaster Building Repairs (%) The 8·3 Square Kita Building was closed as result of large-scale power outages lasting 
tion) in 2019. 1.4 about two days stemming from the 2018 Hokkaido Eastern Iburi Earthquake that 
 One week to one month
  JRE’s portfolio has not been exempt from these  occurred in the summer of that year. The building was closed as a result of the power 
9.7  One day to one week
disasters and several properties have been affected by   No problems with facility outage, with no damage to the building. On the day of the event, on-site staff responded 
these disasters in some way, but thanks to the resilience   Not applicable appropriately and promptly to ensure that all tenants and visitors in the building were 
of the buildings and the strong response from PM com- evacuated smoothly, and were successful in their efforts. Furthermore, there was no 
41.7
panies, damage to these buildings has been limited.  1 loss of profits as a result of the building closing. Despite the difficulty in gathering infor-
  Even when a disaster occurs, buildings are  mation due to the power outage, JRE was able to get an accurate and timely grasp of 
restored within one week in almost all cases, with  47.2 the local response and deliver press release on the disaster situation, as its system for 
understanding such situations was functioning normally. 
repairs costs under JPY 10.0 million. 2 3
  In addition, there is only example of a building  3 Repair Costs (%)
becoming inoperable (closed, etc.) due to a disaster. 
We will introduce this past example of our disaster  2.8
response, where a building was closed due to a large-
scale power outage. 
(Please refer to the 8·3 Square Kita Building case on the     JPY 10 million to  
following page) JPY 100 million or lower 
 Under JPY 10 million 54.2 43.1
 Not applicable
17 Japan Real Estate Investment Corporation Japan Real Estate Investment Corporation 18
Climate Change 
Overviews of Climate Risks and JRE’s Countermeasures Internal Growth Graph   Based on the results, JRE will work on the way between Case 
II and Case III. When carrying out renovation work on individual 
2013 2030
property, not only will we simply refurbish aging facilities and 
Risk Classification Effects Relative to  Base year Target year
(based on TCFD  Office and Timeframe*1 JRE’s Tasks to Address Risks JRE’s Strategy to Address Risks*2 work on energy efficiency but we will also strive to further 
recommendations) Real Estate Market 25% or more
25%   Reduction from Renovation, ZEB improve profitability by increasing the total value of our property, 
• S etting 35% reduction target of CO2 emissions or more (AC upgrade, LED, etc.) while considering the needs of tenants and customers.
• C APEX and energy saving investments (in cooperation with 
• S tronger energy regulations • C ontinue improving energy efficiency engineering team of Mitsubishi Jisho Sekkei Inc.) 10~15%
• P otential introduction of 
Policy and  carbon taxes Medium-term • I ntroduce renewable energy • I mplement PDCA cycle that includes proprietary EMS and  10~15%
Legal Long-term • Q uantify risks related to cost increases  internal carbon pricing Asset-level Renovation Projects and Value-add Approach 
• I ncrease in regulatory  100% Reduction from Grid decarbonisation, 
from future regulations • I ntroduce green certificates and renewable energy
compliance costs • R eplace property (mainly with our sponsors’) 65%   Renewable energy, New acquisition  While improving the energy efficiency of individual buildings 
• S cenario-based quantitative risk assessment (in progress) or below & disposition. Operation at site, etc.
serves as an advance response to the transition risk of reducing 
• P otential relative degradation  Medium-term • U tilize technological expertise of our sponsor group  GHG emissions, it also serves as an opportunity to improve profit-
TraRnisskitsio n  Technology of existing buildings Long-term • E mploy advanced technology (engineering team of Mitsubishi Jisho Sekkei Inc.) * Intensity base (kg-CO2/m2) ability by increasing net operating income (NOI) via savings of util-
• B rown discounts of the  Medium-term • Gg raeinen a nn euenddserstanding of tenants’  • R( i.eed.,u ecntieorng yo fe CffOic2i eenmciys ismiopnrso vinetmenesnitt)y  The reduction through renovations and ZEB properties above is  i ty coJsRtEs  aisn rde rdauisciinngg  auptiplietya lc foosrt se nbvyi ruopngmraednitnagll yt oc oLnEsDc iloiguhst tineng.a nts.
Market existing buildings Long-term • T enant engagement • C onduct tenant satisfaction survey and market research supported by the engineering study conducted by Mitsubishi Jisho 
• S tranded assets • I mprove environmental performance  • P romote green projects with the cooperation of tenants Furthermore, we are moving forward with asset-level green 
of buildings • A cquire green building certifications Sekkei Inc. We conducted theoretical scenario analysis supported 
refurbishment projects. These projects receive a green premium 
by the extensive track record of renovations of Mitsubishi Jisho 
• I ncrease of procurement  Short-term • I mprove environmental performance after conferring with tenants comprising increased rent and pay-
Reputation costs stemming from a high  Medium-term • G reen financing and procurement of  ••  GS  trreeenng bthoennd sE S(fGor r risekfu mrbaisnhamgeemnte)n atn sdy sgtreemen financing Sekkei Inc., as well as studies based on the on-site inspections.  ment into a cooperative green fund, resulting in lower emissions 
climate risk assessment Long-term funds The study results are as follows (comparison of the same property):
and higher profitability.
Short-term • I ncrease resiliency and create a  • P erform DD and risk assessment
• R isk of damage from intense 
Acute typhoons and floods Medium-term disaster response • I mplement hard and soft disaster measures The theoretical scenario analysis supported by the Mitsubishi   Please refer to page 21 for more details.
Long-term • Q uantify future disaster risks • S cenario-based quantitative risk assessment (in progress)
Jisho Sekkei Inc.
Physical 
Risks • I ncreased building  • D etermine cost of rising temperatures  FY2013 Case I Case II Case III Future ZEB Achievements in JRE’s Portfolio
and rising sea level • P erform DD and risk assessment
Chronic mto acnliamgaetme ecnhta cnogsets due  Long-term • Q uantify risk related to future operating  • S cenario-based quantitative risk assessment (in progress) Emissions (t-CO2/year) 105,386 89,314 84,590 82,620 JRE aims to own 5–10 ZEBs by 2030 (including ZEB Ready and 
cost increases Compared to 2013 — –15.3% –19.7% –21.6% ZEB Oriented buildings). In collaboration with Mitsubishi Jisho 
*1  Timeframes defined as follows: Short term: within a few years Medium-term: By roughly 2030 Long-term: By roughly 2050 Emissions per unit floor  92 67.6 64 62.6 Sekkei Inc., we have started to verify the future possibility to 
*2 Abbreviations: CAPEX: capital expenditures  EMS: environmental management system  DD: due diligence area (kgCO2/m2) make the existing properties to ZEBs through renovations.
Compared to 2013 — –26.5% –30.4% –32.0%
No additional  JPY 1.1  JPY 3.2 
Extra cost —
cost billion billion
JRE’s Approaches toward Climate Change Opportunities and JRE’s KPI
WEB The Mitsubishi Jisho Sekkei CO2 Reduction 
While climate change presents business risks, it also provides opportunities for socioeconomic reform and new value creation.  Study Report.
JRE is driving the below strategies to increase value and to seize REIT growth opportunities in terms of internal growth, 
 external growth, and financial strategy.
  Internal Growth Opportunities
Example of Property Replacement with Sponsor:
  External Growth Opportunities
Effective CAPEX (capital expenditure) control/internal carbon pricing
With the cooperation of JRE-AM’s sponsors, Mitsubishi Estate 
1. Effective CAPEX Control know how much CO2 saved of the entire portfolio and how  Co., Ltd and Mitsui & Co., Ltd., we continue to build a portfolio 
   JRE-AM has a dedicated engineering team (Lifecycle Design  much it costs to reduce 1t-CO2. that balances profitability with adaptability to a decarbonized  Disposed
Office), which is engaged in efficiently controlling CAPEX and       Generally, introduction of renewable energy has been con-
society by leveraging property replacements and mutual 
refurbishment works of over 70 properties. Furthermore, we  sidered cost effective to reduce GHG emissions rather than 
trading to replace older properties with newly constructed build-
collaborate with the engineering team of Mitsubishi Jisho  renovation work. However, JRE has found that retrofitting 
ings with high energy efficiency. Acquired
Sekkei Inc., which is one of the leading architectural firms in  existing buildings will also reduce GHG emissions without sig- Shibuya Cross Tower  Front Place Nihonbashi
Japan, to conduct technical assessments of our properties,  nificant additional costs. (building section)
review lifecycle costs of the existing properties, and control 
CO2 emissions Water usage Actual yield after depreciation
costs. 3. Pathway for CO2 Emissions Reduction by 2030
–89.2 –83.4 3.1
  CO2 Emissions Reduction Pathway % % 2.2%    %
2. Internal Carbon Pricing    JRE aims for 35% reduction of CO2 emissions by 2030 
   JRE develops a medium-term construction budget every year.  (carbon intensity basis). The breakdown of the reduction 
As for green refurbishments (air conditioning and LED  is shown in the bar chart in the top-right. We expect 25%    Financial Strategy Opportunities
upgrades, toilet & washroom refurbishment for common  reduction mainly from renovation works of existing  As the financial impact of climate change comes increasingly to    To ensure that our green commitment can be objectively veri-
areas, etc.), we calculate how much we can have the energy  buildings and ZEBs. light, it is likely that financial institutions and investors will place  fied, we are making use of DBJ Green Building certification, 
and water reduction effects from these works. The impacts we  more focus on green financing. As a green investment and lend- BELS certification, and other certifications, establishing a system 
calculate are converted into CO2-ton equivalent, which helps us  ing target, JRE has developed a green bond framework and has  for evaluating and measuring positive impacts on the environ-
been promoting green financing as a means to acquire advanta- ment and society, and also actively reporting to external parties.
geous funding opportunities.
 Please refer to page 22 for more details.
19 Japan Real Estate Investment Corporation Japan Real Estate Investment Corporation 20
Green Bonds 
Green Bonds
JRE issues Green Bonds in order to further promote our sustainability initiatives. Going forward, we will promote energy  TTOOPPIICCSS
conservation, improve customer satisfaction, and encourage acquiring green building certifications through various mea-
sures such as refurbishment work and other ESG investments that give consideration to the environment, and achieve Positive 
Impact* by doing so.
Refurbishments of Shiba 2Chome Daimon Building
 Use of Proceeds from Issuing Green Bonds  Green Bond Framework
Refurbishment work of Shiba 2Chome Daimon Building, already 
The net proceeds of Green Bonds are used to refinance and/or  Eligible Green Projects must meet one or more of the following 
underway, has been planned based on the concept of Positive 
finance the refurbishments to or the acquisition of assets that  eligibility criteria. Impact advocated by the United Nations Environment Programme 
meet the eligibility criteria. (i) Refurbishments Finance Initiative (UNEP FI). Among the eligibility criteria for eligi-
a.  Refurbishments with more than 10% reduction in  ble green projects, this project meets, “refurbishments with more 
Name of investment  Japan Real Estate Investment Corporation 
corporate bonds 12th Unsecured Bond CO2 emissions or energy consumption than a 10% reduction in CO2 emissions or energy consumption” 
b.  Refurbishments with more than 10% reduction in water  and “3 Stars under the DBJ Green Building certification.” 
Date of issue November 1, 2018
consumption Additionally, as for DBJ Green Building certification, our efforts to 
Final redemption  November 1, 2023
date c.  More than one level of star/rank improvement in the green  contribute toward disaster prevention and BCP were highly evalu-
Payment period Five years building certifications listed in (ii) ated, as were our efforts to install highly efficient air conditioning 
Total amount of  JPY 10.0 billion d.  Refurbishment that contributes to the conservation and  and LED lighting inside the building.
bonds to be issued
recovery of biodiversity, including of diversity of outdoor 
Denomination of  JPY 100 million
plants will also be considered if one or more of “a” through 
each bond
“c” criteria in (i) are met.
Subscription  Public offering
Achieving Positive Impact (Expected Value) Overview
method e.  Refurbishment that contributes to the local community by 
Interest rate 0.23%  improving public open space connected to the buildings and 
Rating AA (Rating and Investment Information, Inc.) renovating for accepting people who are temporarily unable  Energy consumption Greater tenant  Replacement of Building Equipment to Reduce 
30 satisfaction Environmental Impacts
Underwriters Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd., Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley  to return home will also be considered if one or more of “a”  Reduce by  % Installation of highly efficient air conditioning and 
Securities Co., Ltd., SMBC Nikko Securities Co., Ltd., 
through “c” criteria in (i) are met. LED lighting inside the building
plus two other companies
f. Either one of the certifications/recertification listed in (ii) Water consumption Green Building certification
Use of proceeds •  Refurbishments of Shiba 2Chome Daimon Building:  Consideration for the Health and Well-Being of 
46
JPY 1.0 billion  (result) Tenant Employees
• R epayment of loan for acquiring Akasaka Park Building:  (ii) Acquisition Reduce by  % Provision of spaces for relaxation and refreshment 
JPY 6.0 billion a. 3, 4 or 5 Stars under the DBJ Green Building certification with greenfield areas and natural materials
•  Repayment of loan for acquiring Shijo Karasuma  Investment return of
Center Building: Any remaining proceeds b. 3, 4 or 5 Stars under BELS 4~5 Improvement of Business Environment with High 
c. B+, A or S Rank under CASBEE   % Tenant Satisfaction
Development and expansion of lounges and other 
shared spaces as requested by several tenants on 
tenant satisfaction surveys
Enhanced Value in Terms of Design
 Reporting  Winning the ESG Finance Award Investigation into ESG-conscious design in addition 
to updating existing image to enhance building 
Allocation Reporting JRE Investment Corporation Bonds  Elevator hall after renovation
presence 
Fund allocation is reported every year at the end of March.  (JRE Green Bonds) won bronze at 
Impact Reporting the Ministry of the Environment’s 
1  W  e disclose the progress and levels of certifications of Eligible  inaugural ESG Finance Awards in 
Green Projects that have been funded by the green bonds.  February 2020. Overview of Refurbishments and Property
Additionally, JRE discloses the following indicators. 
• Energy consumption  • Water usage  • CO2 emissions   Evaluation by an External Organization   Project Name Property Overview
2  T he environmental impacts resulting from refurbishment will be  (Second-Party Opinion) Shiba 2Chome Daimon Building Refurbishment  Name of property: Shiba 2Chome Daimon Building
Project Location: 2-3-3 Shiba, Minato-ku, Tokyo
disclosed annually after the construction has been completed. IMPACT
JRE has obtained a second-party opinion from Sustainalytics, an  Area: Land: 2,820m2  Building: 16,235m2
3 J RE will indicate either an estimated % of reduction of energy 
international ESG evaluation company for the eligibility of its  Project System Structure: S teel-framed reinforced concrete 
consumption or water usage or CO2 emissions before and after  green bond framework.  Design supervision: Mitsubishi Jisho Sekkei Inc. structure, 2 floors below ground, 8 floors 
refurbishment. PM company: Tokio Marine & Nichido Facilities, Inc. above ground
Design and construction: O BAYASHI CORPORATION  Time of construction: March 1984 JRE-AM supports activities 
*  Changes in customer satisfaction and actual investment returns are disclosed  WEB About the Sustainalytics Second-Party Opinion and others Type of ownership: Land and building aimed at Positive Impact,* 
on an optional basis. Construction period: April 2018–2021 (planned) Time of acquisition: September 2001 which is advocated by the 
United Nations Environment 
Programme–Finance Initiative 
(UNEP FI). 
*  “Positive Impact” is defined as “that which produces a positive impact on society or the environment and simultaneously ensures the market-level return”. It is advocated 
by the United Nations Environment Programme–Finance Initiative (UNEP FI).
21 Japan Real Estate Investment Corporation Japan Real Estate Investment Corporation 22
Society   
Relationship Between JRE’s Real Estate Investments and Stakeholders
JRE makes investments based on its ESG Policy and conducts office building management and operations in order to gener-
ate stable and sustainable profits. We are creating a system to improve property value and generate returns over the 
medium-to-long term by both increasing stakeholder engagement and promoting environmental initiatives.
Sustainability Policy 4. Enhancement of safety and security
Please refer to page 05-06 for more details. 5.  Initiatives aimed at officers  
and employees
1.  Contribution to creating a low-carbon society
6. Collaboration with external stakeholders
2.  Contribution to creating a recycling- 
oriented society 7.  Information disclosure and obtaining envi-
ronmental certifications
3.  Contribution to creating a society in har-
mony with nature
Investment and  
management
Unitholders
Contributing 
Society Office Building 
toward increasing 
Investments
the value of the 
entire portfolio
JRE
Japan Real Estate Investment Corporation
Employees
JRE-AM’s Responsibility
Based on its ESG Basic Policy, JRE-AM strives to improve the 
JRE-AM promotes efforts to acquire and develop 
value of properties by promoting investment management of office  professional human resources capable of conducting 
Promotion of 
asset management and to improve the health and 
buildings with consideration for the health and well-being of ten-
well-being of its employees, with the goal of being  ESG-related  
ant workers. Similarly, JRE-AM practices corporate management  an asset management company with the trust of   initiatives
Please refer to  its stakeholders
that enriches both the Company and employees through efforts to  ESG disclosure,   page 27-29 for 
more details.
improve the physical and mental health of officers and employees. improving  
evaluations from  
P25  Tenants and Partners external parties
P26  Local Communities
PM Companies
P27  Employees
Employees
Stakeholders
External Evaluation and 
Tenants
Certifications Contribution to 
Local 
Please refer to page 07-10 for more details. the environment 
Communities
• GRESB and society
• ESG Finance Award
• DBJ Green Building certifications
Local 
Communities PM Companies Tenants
Working with PM companies, we  We are working with PM  We are making efforts to 
promote mutual communication  companies to improve the asset  increase tenant satisfaction and 
with local governments,  value of each property, with  are committed to building 
residents, and facility users to  consideration given to reducing  long-term trust relationships 
promote developm  ent alongside  the environmental impact of  between owner and tenant.
Please refer to  the local community. Please refer to  building operations. Please refer to 
page 26 for   page 25 for   page 25 for  
more details. more details. more details.
23 Japan Real Estate Investment Corporation Japan Real Estate Investment Corporation 24
Stakeholder Engagement   
Tenants and Partners Local Communities
JRE has been participating in a range of activities to contribute to local communities and local society. We 
 Sustainability Program for Tenants
also foster mutual communication with various stakeholders, including local authorities, local residents, and visi-
JRE is implementing various initiatives to increase the satisfaction and enhance the sustainability of tenants in each 
tors to our properties, through such activities.
building.
Sustainability Guide to Promote Owner and Tenant Collaboration Introduction of Green Leases
 Contribution to Community Development
JRE creates and distributes the Sustainability Guide as part of its  We are promoting the incorporation of green lease clauses into 
efforts to promote collaboration with tenants. The Sustainability  lease contracts with tenants. JRE addresses issues related to community development, including urban redevelopment and revitalization as part of investing in and 
Guide introduces activities that we can do in the office, mainly from  operating office buildings located in major cities throughout Japan. JRE works to improve the long-term value of its portfolio by contribut-
the viewpoints of the “environment” and “tenant well-being.” Survey on Tenant Satisfaction ing to the sustainable development of cities through cooperation with local stakeholders, including local governments, regional councils, 
We carry out satisfaction surveys to achieve a high level of  tenants, and our sponsors that are developers.
customer satisfaction and realize sustainable buildings.
 Local Contribution in the Event of a Disaster   Support for Local Events, Local Group
Feedback of Environmental Data / Online Tenant Services on the 
For Akasaka Park Building and others, we have established a sys- Activities, and Artistic and Cultural Activities. For Shiodome 
Internet
tem to host stranded commuters in the event of a disaster, and for  Building, we support the local summer festival by providing a 
We provide feedback to tenants including energy, water usage, and 
Otemachi Financial City we have concluded an agreement with  venue and supplying human resources while holding local music 
waste-related data. In addition, we provide online feedback and 
Chiyoda ward to host stranded commuters in such an event. In  events in the open spaces and common areas of Higashi 
services using our proprietary system.
addition, we have installed a well on the premises of Kanazawa  Nibancho Square and Tokyo Opera City Building on a regular 
Park Building and a regional warehouse on the premises of Harumi  basis. Furthermore, we support a range of artistic and cultural 
Front for disaster control. We also participate in disaster control  activities conducted in Tokyo Opera City Building, which com-
drills held in Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Building and other  prises multiple cultural facilities. In these ways and others, JRE 
buildings. Through these activities, we strive to contribute to the  has committed to promoting regional revitalization as well as 
community by offering places where they can turn to in the event of  artistic and cultural activities by supporting a range of events.
Percentage of Buildings with  71 buildings total Percentage of Buildings Conducting  71 buildings total disaster, thereby contributing to local communities.
Green Leases   54.9 Survey on Tenant Satisfaction 31.0
%   %
71 buildings total 71 buildings total
Percentage of Buildings Receiving  Percentage of Buildings Receiving 
  31.0   57.7
Environmental Data Feedback Online Tenant Services
% %
As of March 2020
 Feedback on Sustainability to PMs
JRE conducts surveys for PMs for all properties in the portfolio    We believe that property managers who 
based on the GRESB-related questions, a global real estate sus- are connected with tenants and visitors to 
tainability certification. Based on the survey results, we analyze  each building will improve the level of  
sustainability efforts at each asset level. sustainability of our entire portfolio by raising 
TTOOPPIICCSS
  As for the survey results and each property’s sustainability  their sustainability-related knowledge and 
efforts, we provide PM companies with opportunities to  awareness.
provide feedback. Score for each building
Introducing town development to increase sustainability
Urban redevelopment project in cooperation with   Strategy to Attract Tenants to Achieve Urban Revitalization
 ESG Seminars for Stakeholders Mitsubishi Estate Co., Ltd.: Link Square Shinjuku For our properties in the Tokyo area, we have adopted a strategy 
Link Square Shinjuku, which is directly connected to the pedestrian  to attract tenants that will help to make the city more attractive 
JRE offers ESG seminars for our business partners, master les-
deck of Shinjuku Station, was completed and opened in 2019 and has  and revitalize the region based on the Urban Development System 
sees, and property managers, among others, for the purpose of 
helped bring new liveliness to the area as a hub connecting the  Utilization Policy for New City Development of the Tokyo Metropolitan 
raising stakeholder awareness. We invite ESG experts from out-
Shinjuku, Yoyogi, and Sendagaya area. Government.
side the Company to cover global ESG trends and discuss spe-
  The subsequent redevelopment project removed the three aged    At TIXTOWER UENO, stores and educational businesses in line with 
cialized fields such as GRESB and ZEB. buildings which were built according to old earthquake resistance  the characteristics of the area were invited to be tenants in order to foster 
  We believe that raising sustainability awareness not only  standards and constructed a new 16-story complex consisting of  a downtown bustling atmosphere while preserving the original mood of 
within JRE, but among all our stakeholders, will benefit  offices, commercial facilities, and facilities that contribute to the  the area and enhancing the urban function of the building as a highly 
sustainability efforts at each asset level. Seminar held in May 2019, with over 180 attendees community, which has greatly enhanced the attractiveness of the  convenient spot for the local community.
area while enhancing the disaster preparedness function for the 
community.
25 Japan Real Estate Investment Corporation Japan Real Estate Investment Corporation 26
Stakeholder Engagement   
Employees (Human Capital Development) Well-being
Basic Policy Employee Health and Well-being
JRE is prohibited from having any employees under the Japanese  addition, JRE-AM has highlighted efforts related to officers and  We believe that the physical and mental health of employees and the creation of an accommodating work environment are 
Act on Investment Trusts and Investment Corporations, and  employees as an important issue in its Sustainability Policy. To  important management issues in terms of improving business performance. Based on this understanding, 
therefore commissions business operations to JRE-AM. As the  achieve these goals, JRE-AM is promoting efforts to improve the  we implement various measures to promote the physical and mental health of employees, help them achieve 
asset management company for JRE, JRE-AM believes that  health and well-being of its employees by creating a system to 
a good work-life balance, and increase worker motivation.
acquiring and training top-level human resources is a very  acquire and develop professional human resources who can 
important aspect of maintaining top-level management. In  handle the responsibility of asset management.
Talent Pipeline & Development Strategy  Creating Productive and Employee-friendly Workplace
JRE-AM Office Environment
We have access to professionals with extensive experience and  mindful of their health and well-being. 
  A work environment that enhances productivity through consid-   Office Design Promoting Internal Communication
expertise in real estate investment and asset management as    Whereas JRE-AM currently does not hire new graduates, we 
eration for health and well-being To coincide with our relocation, we have adopted a free seating sys-
seconded staff from our shareholders, Mitsubishi Estate Co., Ltd.  continually host junior employees (with fewer than ten years’ 
We moved to our new office at Otemachi Park Building in  tem for employees and have upgraded communication spaces within 
and Mitsui & Co., Ltd., and also recruit experienced, talented  experience) seconded from our sponsors who regularly recruit new 
December 2017. Otemachi Park Building is a state-of-the-art  the Company. These spaces are aimed at invigorating in-Company 
individuals, to acquire competent personnel on a timely basis. graduates. By creating a well-balanced, diverse workforce 
building aiming to offer an employee-friendly workplace that  communication and have been set up to add a playful touch to our 
  We employ a human resources development strategy that  consisting of both young and experienced profes sionals, we ensure 
reforms working styles and improves creativity and productivity of  office and promote 
includes a support for acquiring various qualifications and  that our specialized knowledge and skills in real estate asset 
workers, featuring advanced energy efficient facilities, BCP func- employees’ physical 
specialized training after joining the Company. In addition, we are  management are shared and passed on within the company, 
tions, and facilities focused on coexistence with the environment.  activities. We believe 
developing an easy-to-work-in environment for employees that is  thereby enhancing the sustainability of the organization as a whole.
The building is equipped with a designated lounge space for ten- that these offices will 
ants complete with a fitness room, nap room, shower room, etc.,  facilitate work style 
Human Capital Development
in addition to a nursery and a community plaza with natural  reforms and lead to 
greenery that is designed with consideration for biodiversity. improved productivity.
 Learning and Development for All Employees
We encourage all employees, including permanent, seconded, contract, and temporary staff, to pursue self-development and profes sional 
development. We conduct our own training programs that increase knowledge of the REIT industry and awareness of compliance issues.   Promote Diverse Work Styles
Furthermore, we encourage employees to actively participate in a variety of training programs offered by our shareholders. By participat-
We endeavor to provide a comfortable working environment by  business hours of 1pm until 3pm which allows employees to find a 
ing in such programs, we expect each employee to develop as both a business person and an industry professional.
offering various employee benefit programs and promoting a  manner of working that suits their lifestyle. Furthermore, pre-
better work-life balance so that no employee has to give up their  scribed work hours are managed by the month and not by the day, 
Specialized Skills Training management potential and show a willingness to acquire special-
employment for childbirth, childcare, nursing care, or other life  meaning that employees can measure their work obligations and 
We offer training programs led by external lecturers and experts that  ized knowledge from both inside and outside the Company. After 
events. private affairs and come up with a working style that takes into 
improve employees’ professional and practical skills, helping them  these managers are appointed, we expect them to improve their 
account a proper work-life balance.
become professionals in the fields of REITs and real estate asset  management abilities on a voluntary basis. To support their partic-
Introduction of Flex-Time Working Hours for All Employees   As part of our business continuity plans during times of 
management. Further, we encourage all employees and officers to  ipation in management seminars and symposiums, we bear the 
We have introduced a flex-time system for all employees in which  emergency, we have an operating environment that allows for 
pursue educational opportunities outside the company by subsidiz- costs of these activities. To ensure up-to-date knowledge of laws, 
they can schedule their daily working hours outside of our core  remote working as needed.
ing relevant educational expenses such as the costs of attending  such as the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act and the Act 
seminars and training programs offered by external organizations. on Investment Trusts and Investment Corporations, we periodically 
invite external experts to lecture on these topics, and also provide 
Advanced Leadership Development training for managers conducted by our shareholders (sponsors).
At JRE-AM, managerial positions are given to those who display 
Employee  Thanks to the flextime system, I was able to  I can work more efficiently by deciding and managing my 
Voice work without having to worry about sticking  own daily working hours. All in all, I feel like the system has 
Examples of Training Programs by External Lecturers in Fiscal 2019 (20 Programs Conducted Total)
to set working hours or having do work a set  improved my productivity. 
1   Compliance training for those engaged in investment management  4  Sustainability Seminar (January 2020) amount of hours each day, which let me work    The work environment is such that I can take paid leave 
business (June and September 2019) 5  Seminar by Industrial Physician on Stress (October 2019)
after returning from childcare leave without  with ease, so even though 
2  Internal Audit Seminar (June and July 2019) 6  Anti-Harassment Training (February 2020)
3  Anti-money Laundering Training (February 2020) trouble. Since the core required time under this sys- I have a small child I can 
tem can be as short as two hours, I can adjust my day to suit  still find time for myself, 
my child’s schedule for things such as vaccinations, nursery  and this work-life balance 
 Fair Performance Evaluation and Remuneration
school events, or whatever else may come up. What is more,  is another plus for me.
JRE-AM has introduced an evaluation system for all employees 
based on performance and processes. At the beginning of the fis- Daily schedule
Percentage of 
cal year, each employee sets his or her own targets with advice 
Human resources  employees who had  7:15 7:30 8:30 16:30 17:30
from their managers, and bonuses are paid based on the degree  evaluation system performance 
of achievement of those targets. Employees receive comprehen- review meetings Drop-off child at  Commute Begin work Finish work Pick up child
Performance evaluation nursery school
sive feedback on their performance and specific contributions  Process evaluation 100%
through the Semi-Annual Follow-Up Meeting and the Final 
Appraisal Meeting.
27 Japan Real Estate Investment Corporation Japan Real Estate Investment Corporation 28
Stakeholder Engagement   
Creating Fair Work Environments Non-Financial Data Highlights
Communication with Employees Employee-related data is listed below. Particularly notable is data related to the active participation of women, as the 
proportion of female employees at the Company has increased for the third consecutive year, far exceeding the average 
We implement the following measures to foster an open and efficient communication environment among all employees. for Japanese companies of 25.2%.* In addition, results from the reporting period below show a 100% return and retention 
rate for employees 12 months after taking childcare leave. 
Satisfaction Survey
* Source: “Corporate awareness survey on promoting the participation of women in their workforce” conducted in August 2019 and released by Teikoku Databank Ltd.
We believe that hearing the frank and honest opinions of employ-
ees is indispensable for creating a good work environment. In accor-
dance with this recognition, the HR department regularly conducts 
the Employee Satisfaction Survey* and interviews employees in 
Number of employees Training hours per employee
order to improve working environments.
(persons)  ■ Male  ■ Female (hours per year)
*  The Employee Satisfaction Survey is conducted on condition of anonymity in 
order to collect frank and honest opinions. The survey results are shared with  41 43
the CEO and all employees, and the data is utilized for improvement activities. 37 23.0
Employee hotlines & grievance reporting
18 21
For the purpose of empowering staff, uncovering risks/problems,  14 15.3
Anti-harassment
and increasing workplace satisfaction, all employees can consult 
We conduct anti-power harassment and anti-sexual harassment  9.6
with either the GM of the Compliance Department, a legal advi-
training regularly to raise awareness, and provide employees   23 23 22
sory firm, or an external specialist organization on such matters 
with the tools and guidance they need to identify, prevent  
as work problems, grievances, improvement requests, and whis-
and remove sexual/power harassment from the workplace.  FY2017   FY2018   FY2019   FY2017   FY2018   FY2019  
tleblowing on illegal/unethical behavior by officers and employees. 
Furthermore, we keep everyone informed about the existence of 
Every employee can access the above hotlines at any time and 
the compliance hotline.
consultations can be made anonymously, and whistleblowers are 
given protection under the Whistleblower Protection Act or the  Female employee ratio Training expenses per employee
Support for promoting a strong team culture
We provide a certain amount of subsidies for expenses related to  equivalent. If deemed necessary, the contact point will report the  (%) (JPY per year)
details of the consultation to the Representative Director, and the 
eemndp ploayretiee ss,o tcoia sl ugpapthoretr ibnugisld, isnugc ahn ads m waeilnctoaminein pga art sietsro anngd t eyeaamr-  Representative Director will conduct an investigation in  43.9 48.8 34,647 39,728
consideration of the human rights of the employees and take the  37.8 31,880
culture among employees. We believe it helps not only with creat-
measures necessary for resolution of the issue.
ing a comfortable work environment but also strengthening the 
company’s competitiveness through open communication.
FY2017   FY2018   FY2019   FY2017   FY2018   FY2019  
Policies and Initiatives amid COVID-19
Amid the ongoing impact of COVID-19, we are making a variety of efforts to protect the health of JRE-AM’s employees and 
our tenants and to provide a safe working environment. We will continue keep an eye on social trends and respond to  Annual paid leave per person Monthly average overtime
requests from the government in a flexible manner.  (days) (hours per month)
 Consideration for Employees used as a measure to support the mental health of employees  4.05
13.9 14.1
We are conducting operations while staying mindful of work-life  amid COVID-19.
balance in an effort to prevent infection. Therefore, we have  2.30 2.10
 Consideration for Tenants
established rules for adopting teleworking and are promoting  
staggered commuting. We have clarified work priority and pro- We are working to ensure the safety and security of our tenants by 
mote the use of IT through online meetings and other means,  providing disinfectants in common areas, communicating the ben-
and have set up a system that allows work to be carried out  efits of washing hands, gargling and wearing masks, and setting up  FY2018   FY2019   FY2017   FY2018   FY2019  
smoothly even when working from home. In the office, we are  stations to check temperatures with non-contact thermometers. 
careful to apply disinfectants and wear masks to prevent infec-
tion. Moreover, JRE-AM has entered into an advisory contract   Consideration for Suppliers
Other diversity-related data
with an industrial physician in consideration for the physical and  Taking the health and safety of employees of the suppliers such 
mental health of  as construction companies, equipment companies, and PM com- FY2017 FY2018 FY2019
employees. JRE-AM’s  panies into consideration, particularly as it pertains to preventing  Number of employees 37  41 43
employees can receive  the spread of infection, we are postponing refurbishment works 
Foreign employees 0 0  1
health consultations  and maintenance inspection when possible after weighing 
based on this contract.  urgency and importance. At the same time, we are making efforts  Women in senior management positions 
1 2 2
These consultations  to ensure safe operations by distributing work through rotating  (deputy manager or above)
can be conducted  schedules. 
online if requested and 
Temperature measurement with a non-contact 
they will continue to be  thermometer
29 Japan Real Estate Investment Corporation Japan Real Estate Investment Corporation 30
Governance
Management System
JRE entered into an entrustment contract for asset investments with JRE-AM. JRE has also entered into business con-
signment contracts with various trust banks for custodial business related to assets and general business outsourcing. 
Under the management structure below, JRE-AM conducts asset investments such as acquisition and transfer of proper-
ties and leasing spaces to tenants.
Asset Custody Company Asset Custody Investment Corporation Asset Manager
Entrustment
Trust Bank
Japan Real Estate Asset Management Japan Real Estate
Investment Corporation Entrustment Asset Management Co., Ltd.
Administrative Agent Administration 
Entrustment
Trust Bank
Governance
General Meeting of Shareholders
Auditors
Our basic policy as an investment corporation and asset  
management company is not only to comply with laws and  
regulations, but to meet social demands as well. Taking care to  Board of Directors
have each employee perform his or her duties with high ethical  
standards and strict self-discipline raises our reputation  
among investors and garners the trust of the wider society.  Compliance Committee Investment Management Council
P32  Management System
P33  Risk Management President & CEO
P36  Compliance System 
Compliance Department
Finance &  Real Estate  Real Estate  Corporate 
Planning  Risk Management 
Accounting  Investment  Management  Administration 
Department Department
Department Department Department Department
WEB For details, please refer to the securities report (Part 2. Details of JRE, Section 4. Status of affiliates, 1. Outline of JRE-AM,  
(2) Operation system (available only in Japanese).
31 Japan Real Estate Investment Corporation Japan Real Estate Investment Corporation 32
Governance
Risk Management
In order to gain an understanding of risk inherent in operations and manage them in appropriate fashion, JRE-AM has formulated a Basic 
4 Efforts Related to Risk Management
Risk Management Policy, Risk Management Regulations, and Risk Management Rules, and has established the Risk Management 
Based on the Risk Management Rules, the “Risk Assessment Table” created by each department is reviewed every year in principle 
Department, which handles risk management for JRE and reports the status of risk management for JRE to the Board of Directors. 
according to the following process in order to properly manage various types of risks and confirm the status of risk management.
1  Basic Risk Management Policy
Risk Assessment Process
This policy defines JRE’s basic policy regarding risk manage- monitor these activities; and 4) implementation of measures 
ment. This policy stipulates: 1) the classification and definition of  when risks become apparent. This policy also lays out provisions 
risks and management in line with the characteristics of each  for an organizational structure regarding risk management and 
risk; 2) risk identification, assessment, and analysis; 3) activities  for reporting to the Board of Directors.  1. Recognize the external and internal environment
to mitigate risks based on assessment and the means to  Recognize changes in the external environment  
(market trends, regulatory and institutional trends, etc.) and internal environment  
2 Risk Management Regulations (organizations, processes, systems, etc.) and reflect them in the following processes
Under the Basic Risk Management Policy, the Risk Management Regulations clarify the types of risks related to JRE’s business operations 
and where they may occur, and determines management methods and systems to mitigate these risks. 
Types of Risk 
2. Identify risks and review
1. Asset management risks
Identify risks comprehensively according to the operational processes and  
•  Real estate investment risks (risks related to volatility in the  •  Other asset management risks (market risks, credit risks, 
sub-processes of each department and review them using benchmarks  
real estate market, real estate credit risks, etc.) operational risks, etc.)
such as supervisory guidelines and case studies
2. Other risks
•  Companywide risks (risks caused by inadequate organiza- •  Reputation risks (risks caused by the spread of negative 
tional structure, corporate governance, and internal control  information or perception)
3. Assess specific risks
systems) •  Event risks (risks caused by unpredictable external factors 
•  Disclosure risks (risks caused by failure to disclose informa- such as earthquakes and other natural disasters)  Assess specific risks based on “impact” and “frequency of occurrence”
tion in a timely and appropriate manner)
Risk Management System
The Board of Directors determines the Basic Risk Management Policy and supervises the development of an appropriate risk manage-
ment system. In addition, the Risk Management Department has been established as the department responsible for handling risk man-
agement, and risk management managers have been assigned to each department to promote appropriate risk management.  4. Assess controls
Furthermore, the status of risk management is reported to the Board of Directors.
Assess controls based on “impact” and “ability to control frequency of occurrence”
3 Risk Management Rules
In accordance with the Risk Management Regulations, the Risk  every fiscal year, each department uses a “Risk Assessment 
Management Rules stipulate that each department is to clarify  Table” to revise their list of risks, reassess their approach, and 
the risks to be managed, that each department is to recognize  review countermeasures. The Risk Management Department 
and address these risks, and that the Risk Management  monitors these actions and reports their findings to the Board of 
Department will monitor these efforts. As a general rule, once  Directors. 
5. Assess residual risks
Assess residual risks based on the results of assessing (3) and (4)
Risk Management Rules
Basic Risk Management Policy Risk Management Regulations Establish risk management procedures 
Clarify the types of risks, where  such as risk recognition and responses  
Determine the Company’s basic 
they may occur, and determine  for each department, monitoring  
policy related to risk 
management methods and sys- by the Risk Management Department,  
management.
tems to mitigate these risks. and reporting results of monitoring  
to the Board of Directors.
33 Japan Real Estate Investment Corporation Japan Real Estate Investment Corporation 34
Governance
 Basic Principle of Compliance for JRE 
JRE’s basic principle of compliance is to thoroughly observe legal and other relevant norms in regard to the business operation as well as 
Compliance Risk Management through Three Lines of Defense
to respond to the requirements from society. This means that the investment corporation administers and oversees the outsourcing com-
Each department of JRE-AM is proactively and autonomously working on compliance risk management. The following is a  panies from the same standpoint, while complying with legal and other relevant norms in its decision-making.
summary based on the “Three Lines of Defense” concept.
 Basic Principle of Compliance for JRE-AM
1  1st Line of Defense—Self-Control by Front Divisions 1   Ensuring thorough compliance is its basic management principle, since JRE-AM fully understands that any insufficiency in compli-
ance would affect even its management base.
 A  compliance manager has been appointed in each department to promote compliance, which includes daily compliance checks and 
2   As an asset management company, JRE-AM recognizes that it bears the responsibility for realizing the values that are required by 
assessments, formulation and implementation of compliance programs, and formulation and implementation of rules and manuals 
society in its business operation, and makes proactive and continuous efforts for full compliance to enhance the value of its business 
under jurisdiction of each department. 
operation both qualitatively and quantitatively.
 A  risk management manager is appointed in each department to promote efforts such as reviewing the “Risk Assessment Table,”  3   JRE-AM is the asset management company of the real estate fund which is jointly managed by Mitsubishi Estate Co., Ltd., and Mitsui 
gaining an understanding of the types of risks inherent to work under the jurisdiction of each department in order to ensure that  & Co., Ltd. across business boundaries-they are Japan’s leading companies in real estate, finance, and risk management. JRE-AM 
these risks are managed appropriately.  therefore promotes a sophisticated compliance system as the key member of these companies.
 A  compliance program has been developed as a concrete implementation plan aimed at achieving proper compliance. 4  JRE-AM is determined to achieve a reputation for quality among its investors by promoting compliance activities, and thereby gains 
the trust of a wide spectrum of society.
1st line of defense
 Conflict of Interest Policy of JRE-AM
JRE-AM recognizes the importance that its business of investing the assets of the investment corporation (JRE) is to manage the funds of 
the unitholders of the investment corporation, and makes it a principle that JRE-AM always gives the first priority to the interest of the 
investment corporation, which entrusts the asset investment to JRE-AM, and performs the asset management services in a loyal, fair, sin-
2  2nd Line of Defense—Control by Risk Management and Compliance Divisions cere, and equitable way. JRE-AM acts in the best interest of the investment corporation, and discharges the fiduciary duties as an asset 
 T he Compliance Department drafts general compliance plans, practices compliance, and inspects, checks, and works to improve the  management company, and makes a fair deal at all times.
level of compliance in each department.
Decision-making structure in internal control system
 I n addition to planning and promoting the Basic Risk Management Policy, the Risk Management Department monitors the status of 
In a case where a transaction is made with an interested party and above a certain amount
risk management in each department and provides direction based on the “Risk Assessment Table.”
Consideration, Selection, Draft   The department in charge consults a third-party expert as appropriate, and especially regard-
 A  Compliance Committee has been set up to examine, deliberate over, and make decisions on compliance-related concerns and  by Department in Charge ing transactions with an interested party, drafts a proposal after confirmation that there is no 
<The first compliance check> issue on compliance from the perspective of conflict of interest, among other things.
pressing matters such as important transactions that involve key related parties. Independent external experts also serve in the com-
mittee as members. 
   A variety of compliance training is conducted to ensure an understanding of the laws and regulations to be complied with, and to  Preliminary Verification   The said proposal is verified preliminary by the compliance department head. In the event 
by Compliance Department
ensure that officers and employees can engage in activities while maintaining thorough compliance.  <The second compliance check> of an issue on compliance, it is referred back to the department in charge.
2nd line of defense Reject   Deliberation and Approval   The said proposal is approved by the majority vote of the compliance committee members 
and refer  by Compliance Committee   and all of the votes of the external compliance committee members present. As needed, 
back <The third compliance check> the committee orders its halt or alternation.
Approval by Board of Directors  
Subject to the attendance of the majority of the executive and supervisory directors, the 
of Investment Corporation  
said proposal is approved by the majority vote of the directors present.
3  3rd Line of Defense—Review by Audit Divisions <The fourth compliance check>
 I nternal audits are conducted every year to inspect and verify the appropriateness and effectiveness of legal compliance, internal 
management, risk management, crisis management, and other systems from the perspective of ensuring investor protection and fair  Deliberation and Decision  
Subject to the attendance of the CEO and the majority of the executive officers of JRE-AM, 
market formation as an asset management company. by Investment Management Council the said proposal is decided by the CEO’s vote and the majority vote of the officers present.
<The fifth compliance check>
Report to JRE-AM’s Board of Directors, 
3rd line of defense JRE-AM reports the decision to the boards of directors of JRE-AM and the investment 
Executive Director and Board  
corporation. 
of Directors of Investment Corporation 
For details, please refer to the report on the management systems of the issuers of real estate investment trust securities (2. Management 
WEB systems of investment corporations and asset management companies, (3) Measures for transactions that constitute conflicts of interest) 
(available only in Japanese).
35 Japan Real Estate Investment Corporation Japan Real Estate Investment Corporation 36
GRI Content Index
GRI 100:Universal Standard 
2020.04.17
GRI Index Location on the Company’s web site GRI Index Location on the Company’s web site
102  102-1 Name of the organization ⋅ Overview of JRE ⋅C orporate Data 102  102-19 Delegating authority ⋅ Basic Policy and Management Structure of ESG  ⋅ Sustainability Committee
General- ⋅ IR Library (Japanese-language web site) ⋅T he securities report (available only in Japanese) General- (Environmental, Social and Governance) Issues ⋅ Governance Structure of JRE
Disclosures  Disclosures  ⋅ Governance ⋅ Management System
2016 2016
102-2 A ctivities, brands, products,  ⋅ Portfolio List (Portfolio Overview) ⋅T he securities report (available only in Japanese)
102-20  Executive-level responsibility  ⋅ Basic Policy and Management Structure of ESG  ⋅ Sustainability Committee
and services ⋅ IR Library (Japanese-language web site)
for economic, environmen- (Environmental, Social and Governance) Issues ⋅ Compliance System
tal, and social topics ⋅ Governance
102-3 Location of headquarters ⋅ Overview of JRE ⋅ Corporate Data
⋅ IR Library (Japanese-language web site) ⋅T he securities report (available only in Japanese) 102-21  Consulting stakeholders  ⋅ Environmental Measures ⋅ Contributions to the Environment through Real 
on economic, environmen- ⋅ Social Responsibility Estate Investment Management
tal, and social topics ⋅ “JRE-AM website”>Employee Initiatives ⋅ Improving Tenant Satisfaction
102-4 Location of operations ⋅ Overview of JRE ⋅C orporate Data ⋅ Relationship with Local Communities
⋅ IR Library (Japanese-language web site) ⋅T he securities report (available only in Japanese) ⋅ Initiatives for Employee
Initiatives for stakeholder engagements are included in the matters under the jurisdiction of 
102-5 Ownership and legal form ⋅ Organizational Structure ⋅T he securities report (available only in Japanese)
Sustainability Committee and periodically reported to JRE’s board of directors’ meeting.
⋅ IR Library (Japanese-language web site)
102-22  Composition of the highest  ⋅ Basic Policy and Management Structure of ESG  ⋅ Sustainability Committee
102-6 Ownership and legal form ⋅ Portfolio List (Portfolio Overview) ⋅T he securities report (available only in Japanese) governance body and its  (Environmental, Social and Governance) Issues ⋅ Governance Structure of JRE
⋅ IR Library (Japanese-language web site) committees ⋅ Governance ⋅ Management System
⋅ Compliance System
102-7 Scale of the organization ⋅ Overview of JRE ⋅C orporate Data 102-23  Chair of the highest gover- ⋅ JRE Information ⋅ History/Directors’ Profile
⋅ Financial Highlights ⋅T rend of Financial Results nance body ⋅ “JRE-AM website”>About JREA ⋅ Directors
⋅ IR Library (Japanese-language web site) ⋅T he securities report (available only in Japanese)
102-8 I nformation on employees  ⋅ “JRE-AM website”>Employee Initiatives ⋅E mployee Initiatives 102-24 N  ominating and selecting  ⋅ IR Library ⋅ Articles of Incorporation
and other workers the highest governance body
JRE has no employees and outsources all asset management operations to the asset management  102-25 Conflicts of interest ⋅ Governance ⋅ Compliance System
company(JRE-AM), so we disclose the employees of the asset management company here.
102-9 Supply chain ⋅ IR Library(Japanese-language web site) ⋅T he securities report (available only in Japanese)
102-26 R ole of highest governance  ⋅ Basic Policy and Management Structure of ESG  ⋅ Sustainability Committee
body in setting purpose,  (Environmental, Social and Governance) Issues
values, and strategy
102-11  Precautionary Principle or  ⋅ Basic Policy and Management Structure of ESG  ⋅ Sustainability Policy
approach (Environmental, Social and Governance) Issues 102-27  Collective knowledge of  ⋅ Basic Policy and Management Structure of ESG  ⋅ Sustainability Committee
highest governance body (Environmental, Social and Governance) Issues
“The Fourth Basic Environment Plan” developed by the Japanese Government adopts precautionary 
approach. JRE agrees with the plan and sets its “Sustainability Policy” and implements various initiatives. 102-29 I dentifying and managing  ⋅ Basic Policy and Management Structure of ESG  ⋅ Sustainability Committee
economic, environmental,  (Environmental, Social and Governance) Issues ⋅ Management System
and social impacts ⋅ Governance
102-12 External initiatives ⋅ International Initiatives ⋅ Signatory to PRI
⋅ External Evaluation and Certifications ⋅ Signatory to UNEP FI
102-30  Effectiveness of risk man- ⋅ Basic Policy and Management Structure of ESG  ⋅ Sustainability Committee
⋅ Climate Change Initiatives ⋅ Participation in UNGC
agement processes (Environmental, Social and Governance) Issues ⋅ Management System
⋅ Commitment to GRESB
⋅ Governance
⋅ Supporting the TCFD Recommendations
102-31 R eview of economic, envi- ⋅ Basic Policy and Management Structure of ESG  ⋅ Sustainability Committee
102-13 M  embership of associations ⋅ International Initiatives ⋅ Signatory to PRI
ronmental, and social topics (Environmental, Social and Governance) Issues
⋅ External Evaluation and Certifications ⋅ Signatory to UNEP FI
⋅ Climate Change Initiatives ⋅ Participation in UNGC
⋅ Commitment to GRESB
102-32  Highest governance   ⋅ Basic Policy and Management Structure of ESG  ⋅ Sustainability Committee
⋅ Supporting the TCFD Recommendations
body’s role in sustainability  (Environmental, Social and Governance) Issues
reporting
102-14  Statement from senior  ⋅ Message from Executive Director
decision-maker ⋅ “JRE-AM website”>Message from the President —
102-33  Communicating critical  ⋅ Basic Policy and Management Structure of ESG  ⋅ Sustainability Committee
concerns (Environmental, Social and Governance) Issues ⋅ Management System
102-15  Key impacts, risks,   ⋅ Basic Policy and Management Structure of ESG  ⋅ Sustainability Policy Climate  ⋅ Governance ⋅ Compliance System
and opportunities (Environmental, Social and Governance) Issues ⋅ Change-Related Risks and JRE’s Response
⋅ Message from Executive Director 102-34  Nature and total number  No significant concerns are reported during the reporting period.
⋅ “JRE-AM website”>Message from the President of critical concerns
⋅ Climate Change Initiatives
102-16  Values, principles,   ⋅ Basic Policy and Management Structure of ESG  ⋅ Sustainability Policy 102-35 Remuneration policies ⋅ Governance ⋅ Governance Structure of JRE
standards, and norms   (Environmental, Social and Governance) Issues ⋅ CSR
of behavior ⋅ “The website of Mitsubishi Estate Co., Ltd.”
102-18 Governance structure ⋅ Basic Policy and Management Structure of ESG  ⋅ Sustainability Committee 102-36  Process for determining  ⋅ Governance ⋅ Governance Structure of JRE
(Environmental, Social and Governance) Issues ⋅ Governance Structure of JRE remuneration
⋅ Governance ⋅ Management System
3377 JJaappaann  RReeaall  EEssttaattee  IInnvveessttmmeenntt  CCoorrppoorraattiioonn JJaappaann  RReeaall  EEssttaattee  IInnvveessttmmeenntt  CCoorrppoorraattiioonn 3388
GRI Content Index
 GRI 300: Environmental Standards
2020.04.17
GRI Index Location on the Company’s web site Reviewed by
Energy (“Contribution to creating a low-carbon society”) a third-party 
102  102-41  Collective bargaining  Not applicable as JRE does not have employees. organization
General- agreements
GRI Index Location on the Company’s web site
Disclosures 
2016 102-43  Approach to stakeholder  ⋅ Environmental Measures ⋅ Contributions to the Environment through Real  103  103-1  Explanation of the mate- ⋅B asic Policy and Management  ⋅ Sustainability Policy
engagement ⋅ Social Responsibility Estate Investment Management Management Approach 2016 rial topic and its  Structure of ESG (Environmental, 
⋅ Initiatives for Employee ⋅ Collaboration with Suppliers Boundary Social and Governance) Issues
⋅ “JRE-AM website”>Employee Initiatives ⋅ Improving Tenant Satisfaction
⋅ Sustainability Guide to Promote Owner and  103-2 T he management  ⋅B asic Policy and Management  ⋅ Sustainability Policy
Tenant Collaboration approach and its  Structure of ESG (Environmental,  ⋅ Environmental Performance
⋅ Relationship with Local Communities components Social and Governance) Issues ⋅ Contributions to the 
⋅ Initiatives for Employee ⋅ Environmental Measures Environment through Real 
⋅ Green Bond Estate Investment Management
102-47 List of material topics ⋅ Basic Policy and Management Structure of ESG  ⋅ Sustainability Policy ⋅ Collaboration with Supplier
(Environmental, Social and Governance) Issues ⋅ GRI Content Index ⋅ Green Bond Framework
⋅ ESG Information Disclosure Framework⋅GRI 
Content Index 103-3  Evaluation of the man- ⋅B asic Policy and Management  ⋅ Sustainability Committee
agement approach Structure of ESG (Environmental,  ⋅ Commitment to GRESB
102-48 Restatements of information Not applicable — Social and Governance) Issues
⋅ External Evaluation
102-49 Changes in reporting Not applicable —
302  302-1  Energy consumption  ⋅ Environmental Measures ⋅ Environmental Performance
102-50 Reporting period ⋅ ESG Information Disclosure Framework⋅GRI  ⋅ Reporting scope and period Energy 2016 within the organization *1
Content Index
102-52 Reporting cycle ⋅ ESG Information Disclosure Framework⋅GRI  ⋅ Information disclosure policy
302-2  Energy consumption  Energy consumption outside of the organization is not subject to 
Content Index
outside of the  reporting, therefore it is not applicable.
organization
102-53  Contact point for questions  ⋅ ESG Information Disclosure Framework⋅GRI  ⋅ Inquiries
regarding the report Content Index
302-3  Energy intensity ⋅ Environmental Measures ⋅ Environmental Performance *1
102-55 GRI content index ⋅ ESG Information Disclosure Framework⋅GRI  ⋅ GRI Content Index
Content Index 302-4  Reduction of energy  ⋅ Environmental Measures ⋅ Contributions to the 
consumption ⋅ Green Bonds Environment through Real 
102-56 External assurance ⋅ Environmental Measures ⋅ Environmental Performance Estate Investment Management *2
⋅ ESG Information Disclosure Framework⋅GRI  ⋅ GRI Content Index ⋅ (Example) Refurbishments of 
Content Index Shiba 2Chome Daimon Building
201 201-2  Financial implications and  ⋅ Climate Change Initiatives ⋅ Climate Change-Related Risks and JRE’s  302-5  Reductions in energy  ⋅ Environmental Measures ⋅ Environmental Performance
Economic  other risks and opportuni- Response requirements of prod- *2
Performance  ties due to climate change ucts and services
2016
Reviewed by
 List of material topics Water (“Contribution to creating a recycling-oriented society” / “Contribution to creating a society in harmony with nature”) a third-party 
organization
Sustainability Policy GRI Material Topics
GRI Index Location on the Company’s web site
103  103-1  Explanation of the mate- ⋅B asic Policy and Management  ⋅ Sustainability Policy
1. Contribution to creating a low-carbon society  “302:Energy” / “305:Emissions”
Management Approach 2016 rial topic and its  Structure of ESG (Environmental, 
Boundary Social and Governance) Issues
2. Contribution to creating a recycling-oriented society “303:Water and Effluents” / “306:Effluents and Waste”
103-2 T he management  ⋅B asic Policy and Management  ⋅ Sustainability Policy
approach and its  Structure of ESG (Environmental,  ⋅ Environmental Performance
components Social and Governance) Issues ⋅ Contributions to the 
3. Contribution to creating a society in harmony with nature “303:Water and Effluents” / “304:Biodiversity” / “306:Effluents and Waste”
⋅E nvironmental Measures Environment through Real 
⋅G reen Bond Estate Investment Management
“416:Customer Health and Safety” /   ⋅ Collaboration with Supplier
4. Enhancement of safety and security
“Customer Satisfaction(G4 Construction and Real Estate Sector Disclosures PR5)” ⋅ Green Bond Framework
103-3  Evaluation of the man- ⋅B asic Policy and Management  ⋅ Sustainability Committee
5. Initiatives aimed at officers and employees “401:Employment” / “404:Training and Education” agement approach Structure of ESG (Environmental,  ⋅ Commitment to GRESB
Social and Governance) Issues
⋅E xternal Evaluation
“308:Supplier Environmental Assessment” / “414:Supplier Social Assessment” /  
6. Collaboration with external stakeholders
“Customer Satisfaction(G4 Construction and Real Estate Sector Disclosures PR5)”
303  303-3 Water withdrawal ⋅ Environmental Measures ⋅ Environmental Performance *1
Water and Effluents 2018
7. Information disclosure and obtaining environmental certifications “Sustainability Certification(G4 Construction and Real Estate Sector Disclosures CRE8)” 303-5 Water consumption ⋅ Environmental Measures ⋅ Environmental Performance *1
*1  Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC was engaged to provide independent limited assurance on the Environmental Performance Data on the company’s website.
*2  CSR Design Green Investment Advisory, Co., Ltd. reviewed accuracy of JRE’s ESG performance.
3399 JJaappaann  RReeaall  EEssttaattee  IInnvveessttmmeenntt  CCoorrppoorraattiioonn JJaappaann  RReeaall  EEssttaattee  IInnvveessttmmeenntt  CCoorrppoorraattiioonn 4400
GRI Content Index
 GRI 400: Social Standards
2020.04.17
Reviewed by a  Reviewed by a 
Emissions (“Contribution to creating a low-carbon society”) third-party  Employment (“Initiatives aimed at officers and employees”) third-party 
organization organization
GRI Index Location on the Company’s web site GRI Index Location on the Company’s web site
103  103-1  Explanation of the mate- ⋅B asic Policy and Management  ⋅ Sustainability Policy 103: Management  103-1 E xplanation of the mate- ⋅ Basic Policy and Management  ⋅ Sustainability Policy
Management Approach 2016 rial topic and its  Structure of ESG (Environmental,  Approach 2016 rial topic and its Boundary Structure of ESG (Environmental,  ⋅ Initiatives for Employee
Boundary Social and Governance) Issues Social and Governance) Issues
⋅ Initiatives for Employee
103-2  The management  ⋅B asic Policy and Management  ⋅ Sustainability Policy
103-2  The management  ⋅ Basic Policy and Management  ⋅ Sustainability Policy
approach and its  Structure of ESG (Environmental,  ⋅ Environmental Performance
approach and its  Structure of ESG (Environmental,  ⋅ Initiatives for Employee
components Social and Governance) Issues ⋅ Contributions to the 
components Social and Governance) Issues ⋅ Employee initiatives>Basic Policy
⋅ Environmental Measures Environment through Real 
⋅ Initiatives for Employee
⋅ Green Bond Estate Investment Management
⋅ “JRE-AM website”
⋅ Climate Change Initiatives ⋅ Collaboration with Supplier
⋅ Green Bond Framework 401: Employment 2016 401-1  New employee hires and  ⋅ “JRE-AM website” ⋅ Employee initiatives>Basic employee 
⋅ Climate Change-Related Risks  employee turnover data
and JRE’s Response(Transition 
Risks) 401-2 B enefits provided to full- ⋅ “JRE-AM website” ⋅ Employee initiatives
time employees that are 
103-3  Evaluation of the man- ⋅B asic Policy and Management  ⋅ Sustainability Committee not provided to temporary 
agement approach Structure of ESG (Environmental,  ⋅ Commitment to GRESB or part-time employees
Social and Governance) Issues
401-3 Parental leave ⋅ “JRE-AM website” ⋅ Employee initiatives>Initiatives con-
⋅ External Evaluation
cerning employee health and 
well-being
305  305-1  Direct (Scope 1) GHG  ⋅ Environmental Measures ⋅ Environmental Performance
*1
Emissions 2016 emissions
Reviewed by a 
305-2  Energy indirect (Scope 2)  ⋅ Environmental Measures ⋅ Environmental Performance
*1 Training and Education (“Initiatives aimed at officers and employees”) third-party 
GHG emissions
organization
305-3  Other indirect (Scope 3)  Scope 3 is currently not subject to reporting, therefore it is not applicable. GRI Index Location on the Company’s web site
GHG emissions
103: Management  103-1  Explanation of the mate- ⋅ Basic Policy and Management  ⋅ Sustainability Policy
305-4 GHG emissions intensity ⋅ Environmental Measures ⋅ Environmental Performance *1 Approach 2016 rial topic and its  Structure of ESG (Environmental, 
Boundary Social and Governance) Issues
305-5  Reduction of GHG  ⋅ Environmental Measures ⋅ Contributions to the  103-2  The management  ⋅ Basic Policy and Management  ⋅ Sustainability Policy
emissions Environment through Real  *2 approach and its  Structure of ESG (Environmental,  ⋅ Initiatives for Employee
Estate Investment Management components Social and Governance) Issues ⋅ Employee initiatives>Basic Policy
⋅ Initiatives for Employee
⋅ “JRE-AM website”
Reviewed by a 
Supplier Environmental Assessment (“Collaboration with external stakeholders”) third-party  404: Training and  404-1  Average hours of training  ⋅ “JRE-AM website” ⋅ Employee initiatives>  *2
organization Education 2016 per year per employee Human Resources Development
GRI Index Location on the Company’s web site 404-2  Programs for upgrading  ⋅ “JRE-AM website” ⋅ Employee initiatives> 
employee skills and  Human Resources Development
103  103-1  Explanation of the mate- ⋅B asic Policy and Management  ⋅ Sustainability Policy transition assistance 
Management Approach 2016 rial topic and its  Structure of ESG (Environmental,  programs
Boundary Social and Governance) Issues
404-3  Percentage of employ- ⋅ “JRE-AM website” ⋅ Employee initiatives> 
ees receiving regular  Human Resources Development
103-2  The management  ⋅B asic Policy and Management  ⋅ Sustainability Policy
performance and career 
approach and its  Structure of ESG (Environmental,  ⋅ Collaboration with Supplier
development reviews
components Social and Governance) Issues
⋅ Environmental Measures
Reviewed by a 
103-3  Evaluation of the man- ⋅B asic Policy and Management  ⋅ Sustainability Committee
Local Communities (“Collaboration with external stakeholders”) third-party 
agement approach Structure of ESG (Environmental,  ⋅ Commitment to GRESB
organization
Social and Governance) Issues
⋅ External Evaluation GRI Index Location on the Company’s web site
308  308-1  New suppliers that were  Supplier applicable of environmental criteria was not newly hired. 103: Management  103-1 E xplanation of the mate- ⋅ Basic Policy and Management  ⋅ Sustainability Policy
Supplier Environmental  screened using environ- Approach 2016 rial topic and its Boundary Structure of ESG (Environmental, 
Assessment 2016 mental criteria Social and Governance) Issues
103-2  The management  ⋅ Basic Policy and Management  ⋅ Sustainability Policy
308-2  Negative environmental  No specific supplier with significantly negative environmental impact 
approach and its  Structure of ESG (Environmental,  ⋅ Relationship with Local Communities
impacts in the supply  was determined during the recent period.
components Social and Governance) Issues ⋅ Green Bond Framework
chain and actions taken
⋅ Social Responsibility
⋅ Green Bond
103-3  Evaluation of the man- ⋅ Basic Policy and Management  ⋅ Sustainability Committee
agement approach Structure of ESG (Environmental,  ⋅ Commitment to GRESB
Social and Governance) Issues
*1  Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC was engaged to provide independent limited assurance on the Environmental Performance Data on the company’s website.
*2  CSR Design Green Investment Advisory, Co., Ltd. reviewed accuracy of JRE’s ESG performance.
4411 JJaappaann  RReeaall  EEssttaattee  IInnvveessttmmeenntt  CCoorrppoorraattiioonn JJaappaann  RReeaall  EEssttaattee  IInnvveessttmmeenntt  CCoorrppoorraattiioonn 4422
GRI Content Index
 Others 
2020.04.17
Reviewed by a  Reviewed by a 
Local Communities (“Collaboration with external stakeholders”) third-party  Sustainability Certifications (“Information disclosure and obtaining environmental certifications”) third-party 
organization organization
GRI Index Location on the Company’s web site GRI Index Location on the Company’s web site
413  413-1  Operations with local  ⋅ Social Responsibility ⋅ Relationship with Local Communities 103  103-1  Explanation of the mate- ⋅ Basic Policy and Management  ⋅ Sustainability Policy
Local Communities 2016 community engagement,  Management Approach  rial topic and its  Structure of ESG (Environmental, 
impact assessments, and  Note:  Properties owned by JRE are referred as Office in the requirement of this  *2 2016 Boundary Social and Governance) Issues
development programs item taking into account the general meaning of the report. Please see 
Portfolio List of JRE’s website regarding properties held by JRE. 103-2  The management  ⋅ Basic Policy and Management  ⋅ Sustainability Policy
approach and its  Structure of ESG (Environmental,  ⋅ Sustainability Certification
413-2  Operations with signifi- No specific office with significantly negative impact on local communities was 
components Social and Governance) Issues ⋅ Green Bond Framework
cant actual and potential  determined during the reporting period.
⋅ External Evaluation
negative impacts on local 
⋅ Green Bond
communities
103-3  Evaluation of the man- ⋅ Basic Policy and Management  ⋅ Sustainability Committee
agement approach Structure of ESG (Environmental,  ⋅ Commitment to GRESB
Reviewed by a  Social and Governance) Issues
Supplier Social Assessment (“Collaboration with external stakeholders”) third-party  ⋅ External Evaluation
organization
Sustainability  Type and number of sustain- ⋅ External Evaluation ⋅ Sustainability Certification
GRI Index Location on the Company’s web site Certifications   ability certification, rating and 
(G4 Construction and  labeling schemes for new con- *2
103  103-1  Explanation of the mate- ⋅ Basic Policy and Management  ⋅ Sustainability Policy Real Estate Sector  struction, management, occu-
Management Approach  rial topic and its  Structure of ESG (Environmental,  Disclosures CRE8) pation and redevelopment
2016 Boundary Social and Governance) Issues
103-2  The management  ⋅ Basic Policy and Management  ⋅ Sustainability Policy
Reviewed by a 
approach and its  Structure of ESG (Environmental,  ⋅ Collaboration with Supplier
Customer Satisfaction (“Collaboration with external stakeholders”) third-party 
components Social and Governance) Issues
organization
⋅ Environmental Measures
GRI Index Location on the Company’s web site
103-3  Evaluation of the man- ⋅ Basic Policy and Management  ⋅ Sustainability Committee
agement approach Structure of ESG (Environmental,  ⋅ Commitment to GRESB 103  103-1  Explanation of the mate- ⋅ Basic Policy and Management  ⋅ Sustainability Policy
Social and Governance) Issues Management Approach  rial topic and its  Structure of ESG (Environmental, 
⋅ External Evaluation 2016 Boundary Social and Governance) Issues
414  414-1  New suppliers that were  Supplier applicable of social criteria was not newly hired.
103-2  The management  ⋅ Basic Policy and Management  ⋅ Sustainability Policy
Supplier Social  screened using social 
approach and its  Structure of ESG (Environmental,  ⋅ Improving Tenant Satisfaction
Assessment 2016 criteria
components Social and Governance) Issues
414-2  Negative social impacts  No specific supplier with significantly negative social impact was determined  ⋅ Social Responsibility
in the supply chain and  during the recent period.  103-3  Evaluation of the man- ⋅ Basic Policy and Management  ⋅ Sustainability Committee
actions taken agement approach Structure of ESG (Environmental,  ⋅ Commitment to GRESB
Social and Governance) Issues
⋅ External Evaluation
Reviewed by a 
Customer Health and Safety (“Enhancement of safety and security”) third-party  Customer Satisfaction  Results of surveys measuring  ⋅ Social Responsibility ⋅ Improving Tenant Satisfaction
organization (G4 Construction and  customer satisfaction.
Real Estate Sector 
GRI Index Location on the Company’s web site Disclosures PR5)
103  103-1  Explanation of the mate- ⋅ Basic Policy and Management  ⋅ Sustainability Policy
*1  Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC was engaged to provide independent limited assurance on the Environmental Performance Data on the company’s website.
Management Approach  rial topic and its  Structure of ESG (Environmental, 
*2  CSR Design Green Investment Advisory, Co., Ltd. reviewed accuracy of JRE’s ESG performance.
2016 Boundary Social and Governance) Issues
103-2  The management  ⋅ Basic Policy and Management  ⋅ Sustainability Policy
approach and its  Structure of ESG (Environmental,  ⋅ Contributions to the Environment 
components Social and Governance) Issues through Real Estate Investment 
⋅ Environmental Measures Management
⋅ Social Responsibility ⋅I mproving Tenant Satisfaction>Initiatives 
⋅ Climate Change Initiatives for the safety and health of tenants
⋅ Climate Change-Related Risks and 
JRE’s Response(Physical Risks)
103-3  Evaluation of the man- ⋅ Basic Policy and Management  ⋅ Sustainability Committee
agement approach Structure of ESG (Environmental,  ⋅ Commitment to GRESB”
Social and Governance) Issues
⋅ External Evaluation
416  416-1  Assessment of the health  ⋅ Social Responsibility ⋅I mproving Tenant Satisfaction>Initiatives 
Customer Health and  and safety impacts of  for the safety and health of tenants
Safety 2016 product and service 
categories
416-2 I ncidents of non-compli- ⋅ Social Responsibility
ance concerning the 
health and safety  JRE sets “Adaptation to new earthquake-resistant standards or equivalent struc-
impacts of products and  ture/strength” as one of its acquisition criteria. All properties in the current 
services portfolio held by JRE also meet the same criteria.
4433 JJaappaann  RReeaall  EEssttaattee  IInnvveessttmmeenntt  CCoorrppoorraattiioonn JJaappaann  RReeaall  EEssttaattee  IInnvveessttmmeenntt  CCoorrppoorraattiioonn 4444
SASB Framework
Activity Metrics 
SASB Disclosure Code Disclosure Metric Fiscal 2019 Unit SASB Disclosure Code Disclosure Metric Fiscal 2019 Unit
IF-RE-000.A Number of assets 73 assets IF-RE-130a.5   JRE measures and gains an understanding of the energy consumption, water use, and waste of each building on a 
monthly basis, outsourcing data calculation and data analysis to a company specializing in EMS to execute its PDCA 
IF-RE-000.B Leasable floor area 871,326 m2
cycle. If there is a large difference in the aggregated data from the previous month or year, we investigate the cause by 
conducting interviews with the property manager and ensuring accurate data. We also constantly monitor the reduction 
IF-RE-000.C Percentage of indirectly managed assets 0.01 %
effects of green refurbishments such as LED and AC upgrades.
  JRE has established selection criteria for property management (PM) companies to which it commissions the man-
IF-RE-000.D Average occupancy rate 99.7 %
agement of properties, and evaluates all of the PM companies once a year, in principle. In addition to the companies’ 
building management and maintenance abilities, JRE evaluates the PM companies by their environmental friendliness 
FY2019 refers to the period from April 1, 2019 to March 31, 2020 (36th and 37th fiscal years).
in terms of operations, occupational health and safety measures for their employees, and understanding of and cooper-
The number of assets and leasable area are the figures for the entire year including the two properties disposed during the 
ation with the Sustainability Policy set by JRE-AM. Moreover, JRE requests the PM companies to make proposals to 
period stated above, and are therefore different from the figures at the end of the period.
help JRE reduce environmental impacts, such as measures to reduce energy consumption as part of their management 
The average occupancy rate is the portfolio average of the year-end occupancy rate as of March 31, 2020. duties. In this way, JRE makes environmental improvement efforts in cooperation with the PM companies.
  JRE makes annual contracts with professional firms to conduct energy assessments of a selection of its properties, 
and utilizes the results to understand the current level of their energy performance and to formulate future policies.
Disclosure Topic: Energy Management   Over the past four years, a total of 45% of the properties in our portfolio (based on floor area) have been inspected by 
a professional firm.
SASB Disclosure Code Disclosure Metric Fiscal 2019 Unit   JRE will continue to acquire Green Building certifications as well as other environmental certifications and evalua-
tions. As of the end of March 2020, we have acquired DBJ Green Building certifications, CASBEE certifications for real 
IF-RE-130a.1 Energy consumption data coverage Percentage (%)   estate, and BELS certifications for a total of 48 properties (without counting properties with more than one certification 
100%
by floor area multiple times), with a coverage rate of 73.9% based on acquisition price.
IF-RE-130a.2 Total energy consumed by portfolio area  
244,904 MWh
with data coverage 
Disclosure Topic: Water Management
Percentage grid electricity 79.02 %
Percentage renewable electricity  1.28 % SASB Disclosure Code Disclosure Metric Fiscal 2019 Unit
IF-RE-130a.3 Lsuikme-pftoior-nl ifkoer  ptherec peonrtatfgoeli oc haarenag ew iinth e dnaetrag yc ocvoenr-age -4.10 % IF-RE-140a.1 Wofa ttoetra lw filtohodrr aarweaal data coverage as a percentage  100 Pbeyrc felonotar gaer e(%a)  
Percentage of area with data coverage Percentage (%)   Water withdrawal data coverage as a percentage  At this time, there are no properties 
93.64 by floor area of floor area in regions with high or extremely  located in regions with high or  —
high baseline water stress extremely high baseline water stress.
IF-RE-130a.4 Percentage of eligible portfolio that has   Percentage (%)  
an energy rating 20.69 by floor area IF-RE-140a.2 Total water withdrawn by portfolio area   887,660 m3
with data coverage
Percentage of eligible portfolio that is certified to  Not applicable as the ENERGY STAR 
ENERGY STAR Program does not target real estate   — IF-RE-140a.3 Like-for-life percentage change in water   -5.57 %
in Japan withdrawn for portfolio area with data coverage
Rinefoferrmenactieo n PBeurilcdeinntga cgeer otiff ieclaigtiiobnle portfolio with Green  74.30 Pbeyrc felonotar gaer e(%a)   Percentage of area with data coverage 93.64 Pbeyrc felonotar gaer e(%a)  
Notes:  Properties that have obtained BELS certification have been included. IF-RE-140a.4   Description of water management risks and discussion of strategies and practices to mitigate those risks
Reference information: P ercentage of eligible portfolio that has DBJ Green Building certification or CASBEE certification  At this time, there is no region in Japan where water stress has been deemed high or extremely high, so JRE’s portfolio 
for real estate is 73.9% based on acquisition price. is subject to low risk of water shortage. However, as a general rule, public water and sewerage services are purchased 
for properties within JRE portfolio, and if the usage prices are raised, the overall operating costs for the portfolio may 
IF-RE-130a.5   Description of how building energy management considerations are integrated into property investment analysis and  increase. Conversely, if we can reduce consumption by improving the efficiency of water usage in buildings, there will be 
operational strategy  a corresponding reduction in operating costs.
(Please refer to the “Environment” section of this report beginning on page 11 for more information)   For this reason, in its JRE has highlight “Contribution to creating a recycling-oriented society” as the second item of 
its Sustainability Policy which states, “In order to contribute to creating a recycling-oriented society, we will promote 
Based on the Sustainability Policy items “1. Contribution to creating a low-carbon society” and “2. Contribution to creat-
efficient use of water resources as well as implementing Reduce, Reuse and Recycling initiatives.” In keeping with this 
ing a recycling-oriented society”, JRE has set reduction targets for energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions 
policy, JRE engages in efficient usage and management of water resources for its portfolio. In fiscal 2020, we set a tar-
in order to improve the environmental performance of its real estate portfolio.
get of 20% reduction in water consumption intensity relative to 2013 as a long-term policy for reducing consumption for 
  In order to achieve these targets, JRE’s asset management company, Japan Real Estate Asset Management Co., Ltd., 
fiscal 2030.
implements measures to improve the operational performance of buildings, conduct energy efficiency retrofits, and 
engage tenants on energy efficiency based on its “Energy Conservation Policy”, which stipulates operational policies for 
improving energy efficiency of the real estate portfolio, and its “GHG Emissions Reduction Policy”, which aims to create 
a low-carbon society. At JRE, we are employing the following strategies for managing water consumption in our portfolio:
  In light of growing worldwide concern in recent years over the risks from climate change, JRE recognizes the impor- • I mplementation of technical evaluations (water-saving diagnoses) on the water-saving potential of buildings
tance of implementing an appropriate response, which includes reduction of GHG emissions is an important manage-
• A ctive introduction of water-saving equipment such as water-saving toilets and devices upon retrofit
ment issue in regard to our business strategy for ensuring the sustainability of business activities. We have been 
• I ntroduction of on-location water drainage equipment and equipment for water reuse
working to reduce energy consumption and GHG emissions of our portfolio, and have achieved a lower consumption 
levels and emissions than in previous years. In fiscal 2019, we verified the possibility of reducing CO2 emissions from  • R enewal of irrigation equipment for exterior planting and adoption of landscapings that are easy to manage, 
over 70 of our properties and established reduction targets for 2030. Going forward, JRE will contribute to a shift to a  with less water consumption
low-carbon society through the reduction of GHG emissions while securing its preparedness to natural disasters and  • T horough compliance with environmental laws and regulations, monitoring of water consumption, and timely 
other phenomena arising from climate change. improvement through the implementation of an in-house EMS PDCA cycle
  JRE is steadily implementing equipment retrofitting that includes switching to LED lighting and installing more 
energy efficient air conditioning units to reduce its environmental impact based on its sustainability plan. 
4455 JJaappaann  RReeaall  EEssttaattee  IInnvveessttmmeenntt  CCoorrppoorraattiioonn JJaappaann  RReeaall  EEssttaattee  IInnvveessttmmeenntt  CCoorrppoorraattiioonn 4466
SASB Framework
Disclosure Topic: Management of Tenant Sustainability Impact Disclosure Topic: Climate Change Adaptation
SASB Disclosure Code Disclosure Metric Fiscal 2019 Unit SASB Disclosure Code Disclosure Metric Fiscal 2019 Unit
IF-RE-410a.1 Percentage of new leases that contain a cost  IF-RE-450a.1 Area of properties located in 100-year 
Percentage (%)   551,331 m2
recovery clause for resource efficiency-related  (To be disclosed)  flood zones
by floor area
capital improvements 
Note:  Amount recorded refers to the total floor area of properties located in areas where inundation of more than 0 m in depth 
Associated leased floor area (To be disclosed) m2 is expected based on the hazard map (planned scale) issued by the local government. Japanese hazard maps (planned 
scale) are developed primarily for areas with an annual exceedance probability of 1/100 to 1/200 for flood damage. 
Reference  Percentage of total leasable floor area leased  Percentage (%)  
42.3%
information under a green lease agreement by floor area IF-RE-450a.2   Description of climate change risk exposure analysis, degree of systematic portfolio exposure, and strategies  
for mitigating risks
54.9% Percentage by building
(Please refer to the “Climate Change” section of this report beginning on page 15 for more information)
Note:  “Green lease agreements” in the reference information above refers to provisions in leasing contracts related to 
both refurbishments and arrangements for environmentally conscious building operations. 
IF-RE-410a.2 Percentage of tenants that are separately metered  Percentage (%)  
100
or submetered for grid electricity consumption  by floor area
Percentage of tenants that are separately  Percentage (%)  
90.7%
metered or submetered for water withdrawals by floor area
IF-RE-410a.3   Discussion of approach to measuring, incentivizing, and improving sustainability impacts of tenants 
(Please refer to the “Tenants” section of this report beginning on page 25 for more information)
Aiming to make environmental contributions by collaborating with tenants, JRE has been gradually introducing green 
leases that incorporate both operational improvements and efficiency retrofits.Moreover, JRE is conducting diverse 
sustainability initiatives together with our tenants.
  Sustainability Guide to Promote Owner and Tenant Collaboration:
JRE has created the Sustainability Guide and distributes them to its tenants aiming to promote close collaboration with 
them.
  The Sustainability Guide provides tenants various tips on what they can do in the office, mainly from the viewpoints of 
the “environment” and “tenant well-being,” supplemented with real-life case studies.
Contents
• Toward a Sustainable Society
• Our Thoughts
• Case1 Example of a Large-Scale Office
• Case2 Example of Small- and Medium-Sized Offices
• Case3 Creating New Spaces in the Current Office
• What We Can Do Now 
In addition to the guide, we have the following engagements with our tenants:
• I ntroduction of an online system that enables tenants 
to check their energy use
•  Holding Global Warming Prevention Committee meet-
ings open to tenant participation
•  Participation in the energy conservation month cam-
paign and other activities to promote energy efficiency
In many buildings, tenants enter into leasing contracts in which JRE bills the tenants for utility costs based on actual 
consumption of energy, water, etc. for which the tenant is obligated to pay the actual cost. This scheme therefore 
provides tenants with incentives to reduce actual consumption. Tenants are also able to reap the repair-related benefits 
of green leases, with these costs being shared with the property owner.
4477 JJaappaann  RReeaall  EEssttaattee  IInnvveessttmmeenntt  CCoorrppoorraattiioonn JJaappaann  RReeaall  EEssttaattee  IInnvveessttmmeenntt  CCoorrppoorraattiioonn 4488
J
a
p
a
n
 R
e
a
l E
s
ta
te
 In
v
e
s
tm
e
n
t C
o
r
p
o
r
a
tio
n
　
S
u
s
ta
in
a
b
ility
 R
e
p
o
r
t 2
0
2
0
Sustainability Report 2020
100-0004
Park Building 1-1-1 Otemachi,  
Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-0004, Japan
URL：https://www.j-re.co.jp/en/ Printed in Japan