
Sustainability
2020
Report 
010_0378979832011.indd   1 2020/11/27   11:46:48
Introduction
CEO Message
As a responsible asset management firm entrusted with the 
precious funds from our clients, Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset 
Management has been making all efforts possible to ensure that 
we are fulfilling our fiduciary duties. Before the Financial Services 
Agency of Japan finalized the Principles for Customer-Oriented 
Business Conduct in 2017, we announced our “Our 
Commitment to Fiduciary Duties” in 2015, which was well in 
advance to the regulatory authority’s announcement. The 
objective was to declare and demonstrate the required self-
disciplines to fulfill our asset management responsibilities, and to 
ensure that we engage ourselves to a perpetual self-innovation 
process. Since then, expectations have been constantly rising 
towards the social roles to be executed by asset management 
firms, where we are obliged to gratify the needs of the society. 
Therefore, in August 2020, we decided to add sustainability 
elements and incorporate ESG factors to our previous 
commitment and to implement our upgraded set of “Principles 
of Fiduciary Duties and Sustainability”.
At the time of merger between Sumitomo Mitsui Asset 
Management and Daiwa SB Investments in April 2019, the 
corporate philosophy which we adopted as our missions and 
visions stated the following.
Towards The Best Asset Management Firm For Your Better Quality of Life.
We, as professionals, focus on:
  Delivering the best-in-class investment performance, while maintaining the highest standards 
of fiduciary responsibility to our clients,
 C  ontributing to a diversified and sustainable society through our investment activities.
To these ends, we commit ourselves to:
 A  iming for collective growth, based on a respectful understanding of all stakeholders,
 C  reating a flexible working environment that allows all employees to reach their full potential.
This corporate philosophy acknowledges that there are 
responsibilities to be discharged not only as an asset 
management firm, but also as a corporate citizen. Additionally, 
this corporate philosophy clearly states that these responsibilities 
are not limited to clients, beneficiaries, and to the general public, 
but also to our employees. Our “Principles of Fiduciary Duties 
and Sustainability” are aligned with this corporate philosophy as 
a universal and fundamental policy to guide and drive our 
business operations.
Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset Management shall naturally fulfill 
our investment responsibilities as an asset management firm 
which pledged and declared “Our Commitment to Fiduciary 
Duties”, and also shall contribute to the society through capital 
markets as a firm serving in the investment chain. Once again, 
we are renewing our own resolution to execute these 
responsibilities now more than ever. Simultaneously, as a 
corporate citizen, we will strive to create an affluent society 
through CSR activities and measures to promote diversity while 
we work to preserve the global environment through 
environmentally friendly business operations and contribute to 
the realization of a sustainable society into the future.
01 Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset Management
010_0378979832011.indd   1 2020/11/27   11:46:49
Takashi Saruta
Representative Director, President and CEO
Contents 
01 Introduction 21 ESG Integration
Initiatives Regarding Fiduciary Duties and More Sophisticated 
03 About Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset Management 29
Investment Management
09 Stewardship Activities 35 Our ESG Initiatives
Sustainability Report 2020 02
010_0378979832011.indd   2 2020/11/27   11:46:49
About Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset Management
Mission, Vision and Values
Our Mission & Vision
Towards The Best Asset Management Firm For Your Better Quality of Life.
We, as professionals, focus on:
  Delivering the best-in-class investment performance, while maintaining the highest standards of 
fiduciary responsibility to our clients,
  Contributing to a diversified and sustainable society through our investment activities.
To these ends, we commit ourselves to:
  Aiming for collective growth, based on a respectful understanding of all stakeholders,
  Creating a flexible working environment that allows all employees to reach their full potential.
Our Values
Customers’ interest first
Sincerity We act in fair and responsive manner by placing customers’ interest as our values to 
become their most trusted partner.
Time - strategic resources
Agility We address issues in a time-conscious manner to deliver new products and services to 
our customers earlier than peers.
Confront the status quo
Challenge We challenge norms by exploring extraordinary products, services and processes in 
pursuit of the highest standard of investment management services.
Strive for an extra basis point
Passion We dedicate ourselves to improve investment performance and business efficiency across 
all business areas.
Tackle conflict head-on in pursuit of value
Teamwork We embrace diversity of views and ideas, and make collective efforts to achieve what 
cannot be done by one person alone.
03 Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset Management
010_0378979832011.indd   3 2020/11/27   11:46:50
Principles of Fiduciary Duties and Sustainability
To materialize our vision of becoming “the best asset management firm for your better quality of life (QOLs),” we, Sumitomo 
Mitsui DS Asset Management, are committed to fulfilling our fiduciary duties. As a responsible institutional investor, we are 
also committed to fulfill management responsibilities based upon high ethical standard and professionalism. We 
acknowledge that our current investment activities lead to the future development of a sustainable society. Therefore, we 
will not only fulfill our fiduciary duties but also engage in stewardship activities and ESG investment. Simultaneously, as a 
corporate citizen, the way we operate our business will be environmentally and diversity conscious. In addition to this and in 
order to contribute to the realization of a sustainable society, we will take an active role for the sound development of local 
communities. Through these initiatives, we wish to grow with our clients and society in the medium- to long-term.
Principle We will fulfill our management responsibilities as a responsible institutional 
1
investor
 We will exert ourselves to cultivate investment professionals who will play a central role in asset management business, and work to 
enhance capabilities of investment management, trading operation and risk management through utilizing state of the art IT technologies 
and domestic and overseas networks.
 We will incorporate ESG factors into the investment process, and take a progressive approach to stewardship activities including 
engagement and exercising voting rights in order to encourage companies to enhance their sustainability and eventually contribute to 
augmentation of the company’s enterprise value over the medium- to long-term.
 We will develop and provide the most suitable products and services such as long-term investment products to accumulate assets by 
identifying the true needs of clients. We will also provide timely information on the investment products using IT technology.
 We will not only establish a rigid corporate governance structure that ensures the appropriate management of conflicts of interest and 
independence of management, but also endeavor to disclose risks and commissions with a high level of transparency.
 We will strive to maintain our soundness as a company and reinforce our crisis management system to be prepared for various 
contingencies.
Principle We will strive to materialize a sustainable society through our asset management 
2
business
 We recognize the significance and essentials of asset accumulation for individual investors in an aging society with fewer children. 
Therefore, we will engage in investor education for a wide range of generations to raise the awareness for related issues and to improve 
financial literacy.
 We will work to resolve environmental issues, such as climate change, and social issues, such as human rights through our original 
stewardship activities and by participating in initiatives in Japan and overseas.
 We will strengthen our efforts to develop and provide products that focus on the sustainability of society.
Principle We, as a corporate citizen, will engage in activities to pass on an affluent society 
3
and rich global environment to the next generation
 We will participate in CSR activities such as revitalizing communities and providing social welfare support.
 We will carry out environmentally conscious business management, such as reducing greenhouse gas emissions and plastic waste.
Principle We will train and educate human resources to contribute to the QOL of our 
4
clients, the society and our employees
 We will put in place an environment where employees with variety of values can fully demonstrate their abilities and promote diversity, 
especially the active participation of women.
 We will provide a variety of career support programs so that all employees regardless of ages or assignments can take pride in their work 
and obtain professional expertise and insight required.
Sustainability Report 2020 04
010_0378979832011.indd   4 2020/11/27   11:46:50
About Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset Management
Highlights
Our Initiatives for Sustainability
2002 December Adopted ROE criteria for Guidelines on the Exercise of Voting Rights
November Initiated ESG evaluation
2009 November Launched a fund catered to qualified institutional investors, constructing a portfolio with Japanese companies 
based on information on their individual ESG activities
2010 March Became a signatory to the UN Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI)
2014 May Accepted Japan’s Stewardship Code
August Announced “Our Commitment to Fiduciary Duties”
2015
October Established FD Third-Party Committee
April Established Engagement Investment Dept.
2016 June Introduced independent Outside Directors
October Established Stewardship Enhancement Section
October Became a member of the Institutional Investors Collective Engagement Forum (collective engagement)
2017
December Became a signatory to Principles for Financial Action for the 21st Century
February Launched Sumitomo Mitsui Japan Stock ESG Fund
2018 Investing in Japanese companies anticipated to attract ESG investment
*Please refer to page 44 for our sustainability-related funds
March Introduced ESG evaluation for REIT and domestic fixed-income investments 
April Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management and Daiwa SB Investments merged
Established Responsible Investment Section
April Established Responsible Investment Committee and FD Advisory Board to strengthen our initiatives for 
2019
responsible investment
April Introduced XNET to integrate operations for determining the exercise of voting rights
December Declared support for TCFD and joined TCFD Consortium
December Joined 30% Club Japan
February Became a signatory to Climate Action 100+
2020 August Established “Principles of Fiduciary Duties and Sustainability” by adding sustainability elements and 
incorporating ESG factors to “Our Commitment to Fiduciary Duties”
PRI Assessment Rating
2020
Strategy and governance A+
ESG incorporation in listed equities A+
Active ownership in listed equities A+
Engagement A+
Voting A+
05 Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset Management
010_0378979832011.indd   5 2020/11/27   11:46:51
Fund Management Operations
With our network of over 300 investment professionals in Japan and overseas, we have established a global 
investment research platform that allows us to meet clients’ diverse asset management needs.
Investment professionals
308
Average years of industry experience
15.3
CFA (Chartered Financial Analyst)
65
*As of April 1, 2020 Hong Kong
Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset Management (Hong Kong) Limited
Shanghai
London Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset Management Company, Limited  
Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset Management (UK) Limited Shanghai Representative Office
Singapore New York
Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset Management (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset Management (USA) Inc.
Assets Under Management
Institutional accounts Investment trusts
Domestic  USD 53 billions
Discretionary Accounts 
(Pension Funds)  USD 26 billions Publicly Offered Funds
Discretionary Accounts (Others) Total   USD 38 billions Total
  USD 4 billions
Investment Advisory Accounts 62 74
  USD 23 billions USD   billions USD   billions
Privately Placed Funds
  USD 37 billions
Overseas  USD 9 billions
*AUM is as of March 31, 2020.
*Figures shown in US dollars are conversions from Japanese yen based amounts, at USD/JPY 107.955.
Sustainability Report 2020 06
010_0378979832011.indd   6 2020/11/27   11:46:52
About Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset Management
Corporate History
Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management Daiwa SB Investments
1973 Established Daiwa International Capital Management
1976 Began management services for overseas pension funds
1981 Began management services of oil-related funds for Government Agencies in the Middle East
Established Sansei Capital Management 
Established Sumigin Bankers Investment Management 
(renamed to Mitsui Life Global Asset Management in 1999)
1985 (renamed to SB Investment Management in 1990)
Established Sumitomo Life Asset Management 
(renamed to Sumitomo Life Investment in 1999)
Established Taiheiyo Investment Trust   1989
(renamed to Sumisei Global Investment Trust Management in 1999)
1993 Established SBIM Investment Trust Management
Sakura Asset Management and Sakura Investment Trust Management merged to form 
1997
Sakura Investment Management
Daiwa SB Investments formed from a merger of the 3 corporations, Daiwa International 
1999
Capital Management, SB Investment Management, and SBIM Investment Trust Management
Mitsui Marine Asset Management and Sumitomo Marine Asset Management merged to 
2001
form Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Asset Management
Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management formed from a merger of the  
5 corporations, Mitsui Life Global Asset Management, Sakura Investment Management, 
2002
Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Asset Management,  
Sumisei Global Investment Trust Management, and Sumitomo Life Investment
2007 Established Seoul Representative Office (closed May 2013)
Established Kansai Office (currently Osaka Branch) 2008
2009 Established Shanghai Representative Office
Became a signatory to the UN Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) 2010
Formed alliance with UOB Asset Management, an asset management company in Singapore Became a signatory to the UN Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI)
2012
Established UOB-SM Asset Management as a joint venture (JV) in Singapore
Merged with Toyota Asset Management and established Nagoya Branch 2013 Established Osaka Branch
Declared acceptance of the “Principles for Responsible Institutional Investors”   Declared acceptance of the “Principles for Responsible Institutional Investors” 
(Japan’s Stewardship Code) and disclosed policies based on the Code to the public 2014 (Japan’s Stewardship Code) and disclosed policies based on the Code to the public
Formed strategic and capital alliance with Misaki Capital
Acquired Nikko Global Wrap as a wholly-owned subsidiary
Became the first major asset management company to directly offer investment trust online
2015
Announced “Our Commitment to Fiduciary Duties”  
and its specific measures as “Our Fiduciary Action Plans”
Established the Research Center for Financial Smart Data, jointly with the National Institute of 
2016
Informatics (NII) to explore new technology in Fintech field
2017 Announced “Principles Concerning Customer-Oriented Business Conduct”
2019
In April 2019, Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management and Daiwa SB Investments merged to form 
Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset Management
In December 2019, it became a supporter to the FSB (Financial Stability Board) Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
07 Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset Management
010_0378979832011.indd   7 2020/11/27   11:46:53
Company Profile
Name Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset Management Company, Limited
Home Address Toranomon Hills Business Tower 26F, 1-17-1 Toranomon, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-6426, Japan
Tel: +81-3-6205-0200
Paid in Capital JPY 2 billion
Business (1) Investment Management Business  (2) Investment Advisory and Agency Business
(3) Type II Financial Instruments Business
Representative Representative Director, President and CEO   Takashi Saruta
Number of Staff 1,074 (as of April 1, 2020 including overseas offices)
Ownership Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group  50.1%  Daiwa Securities Group  23.5%
Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance  15.0%  Sumitomo Life Insurance  10.4%
Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank  1.0%
Registered Number The Director of Kanto Local Finance Bureau (KINSHO) No.399
Membership The Investment Trusts Association, Japan; Japan Investment Advisers Association; Type II Financial Instruments 
Firms Association
Domestic Offices
Osaka Branch Yodoyabashi Mitsui Building 3F, 4-1-1 Imabashi, Chuo-ku, Osaka 541-0042, Japan
Tel: +81-6-4707-4855
Nagoya Branch Nagoya Lucent Tower 15F, 6-1 Ushijimacho, Nishi-ku, Nagoya, Aichi 451-6015, Japan
Tel: +81-52-587-5491
Subsidiary Nikko Global Wrap Ltd.
Koamicho Nikko Building, 9-2 Nihonbashi Koamicho, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 103-0016, Japan
Tel: +81-3-4577-8800
Overseas Offices and Subsidiaries
Shanghai Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset Management Company, Limited Shanghai Representative Office 
Suite1002, 10/F, CITIC Square, 1168 Nanjing Road West, Shanghai, 200041, China
Tel. +86-(0)21-5292-5960
UK Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset Management (UK) Limited
5 King William Street, London EC4N 7DA, United Kingdom 
Tel. +44-(0)20-7507-6400
USA Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset Management (USA) Inc.
300 Park Avenue, 16th Floor, New York, NY10022, United States 
Tel. +1-212-418-3030
Hong Kong Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset Management (Hong Kong) Limited
6/F, One International Finance Centre, 1 Harbour View Street, Central, Hong Kong
Tel. +852-2521-8883
Singapore Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset Management (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.
7 Straits View, #16-04 Marina One East Tower, Singapore 018936 
Tel. +65-6297-6811
Sustainability Report 2020 08
010_0378979832011.indd   8 2020/11/27   11:46:53
Stewardship Activities
Message from the Responsible Investment Officer
We will reach out through 
engagement so that Japanese 
companies can regain 
earning power.
Yuji Kuramoto
  Chief Responsible Investment Officer
Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset Management Company, Limited is a  resources and created the responsible investment system that 
company established through the merger of two companies,  enhance both quality and quantity more than ever before.
namely Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management and Daiwa SB  Against the backdrop of frequent abnormal weather and 
Investments, on April 1, 2019. marine pollution around the world, calls for various tighter 
Former Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management announced “Our  regulations and companies’ responses have been growing at the 
Commitment to Fiduciary Duties” ahead of the industry in 2015.  global level to ensure sustainability of the global environment. 
This preceded  the ethos of the “Principles for Customer-Oriented  CO2 emissions per production unit are now an important element 
Business Conduct,” which the Financial Services Agency of  for corporate competitiveness, and companies’ interests, assets, 
Japan encouraged financial businesses to adopt in 2017, and set  businesses and others related to fossil fuels can be assumed to 
managerial goals of strengthening professional abilities in  become “stranded assets” and may lose their value in the future. 
investments and providing financial services that contribute to  We are aware that risks related to sustainability are becoming a 
and customers’ quality of life (QOL). When it comes to ESG, we  crucially important factor that influences existence of companies.
have started our own ESG evaluation from 2009 and now  In light of such non-continuous and dynamic  changes in the 
assigned  ESG scores to over 700 companies. business environment surrounding investee companies, the 
On the other hand, former Daiwa SB Investments led the way  Company has been strengthening the approach of incorporating 
in the industry by implementing various efforts that are now  evaluation and analysis taking various non-financial and medium- 
common in the asset management industry, such as the  to long-term perspectives including the perspective of 
introduction of ROE criteria in the guidelines for exercise of voting  sustainability into the Company’s investment products according 
rights from 2002 and the adoption of the principle approach  to respective investment concepts.
where decisions on exercise of voting rights are made in light of  In addition, we have been and will be encouraging investee 
actual conditions of investee companies. Furthermore, Daiwa SB  companies, through engagement with them, to solve 
Investments appointed independent outside directors in 2017,  sustainability-related issues and navigate business management 
set up a Responsible Investment Committee centered on  to increase their sustainability. At the same time, to restore 
independent directors, with the aim of strengthening management  earning power of Japanese companies and bring a virtuous cycle 
of conflicts of interest with customers and improving the  of the Japanese economy, including job creation and an increase 
transparency in operations with regard to decisions on exercise  in national income, we will prompt the strengthening of managerial 
of voting rights as well as investment trust fees and income  power that enables investee companies to take risks in an 
distributions. appropriate manner boldly through engagement with them.
These two companies carried out the management integration  We will continue to report details of our responsible investment 
in 2019 and made a start under a new structure in order to  activities regularly to diverse stakeholders including customers 
continue to take on challenges as a true asset management  and companies that have agreed to hold dialogues with the 
processional who contributes to customers’ QOL over the long  Company.
term. We recognize that the merger has enhanced our human 
09 Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset Management
010_0378979832011.indd   9 2020/11/27   11:46:54
Overview of Stewardship Activities
“Stewardship responsibilities” are institutional investors’  investee companies on a daily basis. Furthermore, we also 
responsibilities to increase investment returns for “customers and  conduct collective engagement with other institutional investors 
beneficiaries including final beneficiaries” over the medium- to  by proactively participating in third party’s initiatives. At the 
long-term, by encouraging investee companies to improve their  Stewardship Meeting and the ESG Meeting, our investment 
corporate value and achieve sustainable growth through  professionals share engagement activities and will lead to more 
“engagement”, constructive dialogue with medium- to long-term  efficient engagement through vigorous discussions from 
viewpoints based on deep understanding of investee companies  multidimensional perspectives. In addition, the Company conduct 
and their business environment. highly transparent management by managing potentials for 
The Company has many experienced investment professionals,  conflicts of interest with its shareholder companies and business 
and analysts and fund managers at the Responsible Investment  partners through monitoring by the Responsible Investment 
Section and the Investment Department conduct engagements  Committee including outside directors.
so as to improve corporate value and mitigate any damage to 
Overview of stewardship activities
Board of Directors
Reporting Recommendation
Responsible Investment Committee
 ∙ Monitoring of management of conflicts of interest
CEO
 ∙ Monitoring of Stewardship Activities
 ∙ Making recommendations where necessary
Recommendation Reporting
FD and Sustainability Meeting
Stewardship Meeting
 ∙  Receiving opinions and recommendations on fiduciary 
ESG Meeting
duties and sustainability from outside experts
Cooperation
Monitoring system
Monitoring
Stewardship Activities
Investment Department and  
Responsible Investment Section
overseas affiliated companies
 ∙ Continuing stewardship activities
 ∙ Supervising ESG evaluation  ∙ Engagement
 ∙ Engagement  ∙ Exercise of voting rights (support)
 ∙  Stewardship-related external activities  Information   ∙ ESG evaluation
(such as participation in initiatives of PRI and others) sharing
Sustainability Report 2020 10
010_0378979832011.indd   10 2020/11/27   11:46:54
Stewardship Activities
Basic Concept for Engagement
Although engagement themes vary depending on situations of investee companies and REIT investment firms. (hereafter 
referred to as “investee companies”), we try to conduct engagement that contributes to improvement of the value of or 
mitigation of any damage to investee companies in accordance with the following basic policy. In addition, engagement 
topics are not always solved immediately, and discussions are continued over the medium- to long-term.
We conduct self-evaluation of the implementation status of Japan’s Stewardship Code annually and disclose the results. 
In the disclosure, results of engagements and examples of engagements can be found.
1 The Company will carry out engagements with investee companies to fulfill its fiduciary responsibilities to customers and 
final beneficiaries, as well as to contribute to the sound development of Japan’s capital markets and economic expansion 
by playing an instrumental role in the virtuous cycle of the investment chain, thereby achieving its social mission as a 
responsible institutional investor.
2 The Company will work to improve the value of or mitigate damage to investee companies by encouraging them to develop 
s
and implement appropriate medium- to long-term business strategy and vision based on medium- to long-term issues in 
e
i the industry as a whole, a specific sector, or an individual company as well as to go far in information disclosure.
c
i
ol 3 The Company will strive to conduct engagement pertaining to domestic securities (including J-REIT) from a perspective 
p focused on both sustainability and the improvement of capital efficiency, while for other investment assets, engagement will 
  be based on sustainability perspective that considers the characteristics, legal framework, and status of the relevant assets 
c
i and countries.
s
a
B 4 In the course of engagement, the Company will also cover issues with the exercise of voting rights as well as ESG issues 
that affect sustainability, such as increasing awareness of climate change risks and the permeation of the sustainable 
development goals (SDGs).
5
The Company will also eye collective engagement under appropriate conditions if, in dialogue with investee companies, 
collaboration with other institutional investors is deemed effective.
11 Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset Management
010_0378979832011.indd   11 2020/11/27   11:46:55
Engagement Process
Our engagement process is illustrated as in the following table: for active methods and on raising the level of the entire stock 
What is important in implementing engagement is recognition  market for passive methods.
of issues and identification of the engagement theme. As the  After engagement, the dialogue is taken into account in 
preliminary stage for engagement, an engagement topic is set  investment activities such as reviewing forecast of investees’ 
for each investee company after careful preparations by  earnings results and the Company’s own ESG evaluation, and 
reference to external information on social situation and others.  exercise of voting rights based on information and responses 
While some themes are for the short to medium term, there are  received. In addition, the Company verifies effectiveness of the 
many medium- to long-term themes that require time to  engagement through internal sharing of information, and looks 
achieve their objectives. Therefore, we will continue to work to  back the engagement to further enrich the following dialogues. 
solve issues while appropriately understanding the progress  In the look-back, the Company may ask investee companies 
including changes in activities of investee companies. The  for feedback about dialogue to see if it was useful to both the 
Company manages investment products for both active and  Company and the investee companies. The Company’s 
passive methods as an all-round asset management company,  engagement process has been built by continuously repeating 
and consciously conducts a dialogue focused on improvement  such a cycle.
of the value or mitigation of any damage to investee companies 
Engagement cycle of Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset Management
  Information gathering (from initiatives for PRI and others, companies and experts)   Appropriateness of collected information as well as 
identified issues
  Reactions and feedback of investees
  Business restructuring, improvement of financial structure, increase in    Appropriateness of output, etc.
Identification  capital efficiency, shareholder returns, etc.
of issues  ESG issues
 Responses to misconduct, etc.
Input of external information  Creation of dialogue  Implementation of dialogue  Verification of dialogue 
and identification of issues (engagement) program (engagement) and output and engagement
  Raising of questions to investees through interviews and letters
  Utilization of collective engagement
  Creating programs of medium- to long-term issues such as ESG issues   Investment decisions
  Creating programs of short- to medium-term issues such as misconduct,  Output  Reflection in exercise of voting rights
business restructuring, financial structure, increase in capital efficiency, and 
 ESG evaluation, etc.
shareholder returns
Sustainability Report 2020 12
010_0378979832011.indd   12 2020/11/27   11:46:56
Stewardship Activities
Results of Engagements
At the Company, investment professionals such as analysts and fund managers contact companies on a daily basis and 
approach them from various aspects through one-to-one dialogues, a variety of presentation meetings such as results 
briefing, tours of plants and facilities, telephone interviews and others. We define “one-on-one engagement between the 
investee companies and the Company” as an exclusive engagement and focus on these activities. Here, we show results of 
exclusive engagement in fiscal 2019.
Results of exclusive engagements
We conducted 1,270 exclusive engagements through the year. In these engagements, approximately 80% of all companies have held 
dialogues with executive officers or higher such as directors and executive officers as the counterparties to these dialogues. The 
breakdown by topic of dialogue is as follows. Although multiple topics are discussed at the same time in actual dialogues, dialogues 
were classified by main topic in the counting. Engagements in which discussions went into the management and managerial strategy 
make up most of the engagements. This is thought of as a characteristic of the Company.
Counterparts of dialogues: breakdown by position Engagement themes: breakdown by topic
Management strategy including ESG issues
Directors, executive officers, etc.   77.3%
  80.5% Opinions on the exercise of voting rights
Department managers, section chiefs, etc.   21.5%
  12.6% Capital policy/Strengthen shareholder returns
Person in charge  6.9%   0.6%
Strengthen information disclosure
  0.6%
Example (1)
Preparation: setting a topic/issues
  Making discussions and expressing opinions on business continuity or sustainability
  (1) Recognition of current situation and future policy
  (2) Potential of existing businesses and new businesses
A
 
r
e
r
u Engagement: proposal to the investee company
t
c   We expressed our concerns, as an investor, about the risk that the company’s food and beverage-related 
a
business would shrink due to future social changes, then encouraged investee company to scrutinize current 
f
u
situation as well as to promote responsive measures from now on.
n
a
m
 
al Investee company: reaction/action
c
  We confirmed that the company had an understanding of the risk of shrinking of the market for the relevant 
i
m
food and beverages and was making the following actions.
e   (1) Promoting improvement of productivity in the existing businesses using AI
h
  (2)  Focusing on creation of new businesses by strengthening R&D, including environmentally compatible 
C
products such as biodegradable resin
13 Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset Management
010_0378979832011.indd   13 2020/11/27   11:46:56
Results of Engagements
Example (2)
Preparation: setting a topic/issues
  Making discussions and expressing opinions on the recognition of ESG risks in the company
  (1) Understanding of the investee company’s ESG risks on a consolidated basis 
  (2) Responses to climate change in property development
B
 
y
n
a
p Engagement: proposal to the investee company
m
o   We encouraged the investee company of scenario analysis in accordance with TCFD and the enrichment of 
c disclosure in response to the recent increase in the frequency of severe disasters and the escalating social 
 
t
n needs for ESG.
e
m
p
o
l
e Investee company: reaction/action
v
e   We confirmed that management team, the division dedicated to ESG, and each business unit were closely 
d
y  working to deepen discussions on ESG risks.
rt   (1)  Assess physical risks and transition risks due to climate changes, and identify business segments that are 
e
p likely to being severely damaged
o
  (2)  Set priorities and start with measures responding to physical risks such as relocation of the emergency 
r
P
power supply system to the upper floors
Example (3)
Preparation: setting a topic/issues
  Discussing the management policy after a large M&A
  (1) Post M&A risk management
C   (2) Effectiveness of board of directors after scale expansion of the company
 
r
e
r
u
t Engagement: proposal to the investee company
c
a   In the light of significant increase of company size due to M&A, we encouraged the investee company to 
f
u invite outside directors, such as experienced executives at large companies and further diversify the Board of 
n
Directors.
a
m
 
l
a
c
i Investee company: reaction/action
m
  We confirmed the company considers measures to improve external explanation for the large M&A.
e
h   (1) Explanation of the progress of PMI and business synergy of M&A
C
  (2) Explanation of the effectiveness of the Board of Directors using a skill matrix
Sustainability Report 2020 14
010_0378979832011.indd   14 2020/11/27   11:46:56
Stewardship Activities
Basic Concept for the Exercise of Voting Rights
In fulfilling our stewardship responsibilities, we will exercise voting rights with the aim of improving value of or mitigating 
damage to investee companies for the benefit of customers and final beneficiaries.
Voting rights are important, as they can impact corporate management and REIT management, and change the value of 
an investee company, depending on exactly how they are exercised. We strive to exercise voting rights so as to prevent the 
management from damaging interests of shareholder or investor and to motivate them to create the greatest value by 
making effective use of the resources available within the company or REIT properties.
As an asset manager, the Company invests in assets that are expected to bring higher returns. We believe what we are 
able to do is not only to simply hold securities but to encourage sound development of investee companies and improve 
their corporate value through goal-oriented dialogue (engagement) and the assertive exercise of voting rights. We utilize 
voting rights in an assertive manner to ensure that investee companies to enhance their corporate governance and that 
capital markets are soundly managed, and to make investee companies aware of interests of shareholders and investors 
and also to let them develop desirable conditions.
The purpose of the exercise of voting rights is improvement of customer interests and satisfaction.
The exercise of voting rights is an activity leading directly to  Company (1) tries to follow the PDCA cycle in a dialogue based 
interests of customers and final beneficiaries through raising value  on records created and (2) strives to increase quality of its 
in investee companies. dialogues by sending a questionnaire to each company, while 
The first phase to exercise voting rights is a constructive  making efforts including aiming to hold a dialogue with 
dialogue with companies. We summarize problems and issues  consideration given to each company.
of each of investee companies and send questionnaire prior to  The third phase is improvement of companies’ earnings 
dialogues. For example, we requested Company A to explain  power. On the defensive side, we take a tough stance with any 
future vision on how to minimize “discount on the share price  company that caused incidents in terms of social credibility from 
due to concerns on diesel engines business,” while we  the perspective of customer and beneficiary interests. In such a 
requested Company B for specific measures to strengthen  case, we ask companies to account for incidents while we 
internal control since we recognized a risk that the  strengthen monitoring and appropriately vote against a proposed 
management’s pressure may lead to dysfunction of the  agenda on election of executives. On the other hand, as an 
corporate auditors and falsification of figures for quality on site.  offensive measure, we exercise voting rights favorably in such a 
These are headlines of engagement agenda, and we actually  case where a company proactively makes prior investments in 
have a dialogue on more specific issues. development of human resources.
The second phase is continuation of dialogue. We provide  Through these activities related to the exercise of voting rights, 
feedback about results of the exercise of voting rights and  we aim to enhance sustainability of investee companies, and 
continue to prompt actions of each company for the matter in  eventually to expand interests of customers and final 
question. In the second and subsequent dialogues, the  beneficiaries.
Major issues for the exercise of voting rights
Takayuki 
  Development and implementation of appropriate 
Maekawa Management 
medium- to long-term management strategy
Strategy
General Manager,    Improvement of return on equity (ROE)
Responsible Investment 
Section
IR and    Engagement that encourages information disclosure
information    Raising the value in investee companies in medium- 
disclosure to long-term
Capital policy/   Efficient investment taking capital cost into account
Strengthen    Appropriate financial/capital structure, and cross-
shareholder  held shares
returns   Shareholder returns
  Board composition, remuneration and incentives
ESG
  Internal control to prevent misconduct, etc.
15 Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset Management
010_0378979832011.indd   15 2020/11/27   11:46:56
Criteria for the Exercise of Voting Rights
We have established our own guidelines for the exercise of voting rights for the purpose of contributing to improvement of 
corporate value through strengthening of governance of investee companies. In exercising voting rights, we do so after 
carefully examining all agenda proposals of companies on an individual basis in principle. In actual voting decisions, since 
external environment and specific factors to be addressed and progress of improvement for each investee company are 
taken into account through interviews and engagements, we do not necessarily vote against the proposal in the case of the 
conflict with the guidelines. The major items and the intent of establishment of the Company’s voting rights guidelines are 
outlined below. Details of our guidelines are disclosed on our website (https://www.smd-am.co.jp/english/corporate/
responsible_investment/).
Major items and the embedded ideas of the guidelines for the exercise of voting rights.
Proposals concerning the election and dismissal of directors
Criteria
Embedded Ideas of the Criteria 
(In the case of the conflict with the guidelines, we may vote against the proposal)
  If ROE never exceeds the average for listed companies in the past 
three years. These are ideas focusing on the management’s 
  If liabilities exceed assets or there is a severe decline in profit, etc. responsibility for operating results.
  If issue of social credibility occurs, etc.
This is an idea that a certain number of independent 
  Composition of the board of directors such as cases where the 
outside directors is necessary to reflect the viewpoint 
number of directors is extremely large or where the ratio of outside 
of third-party and minority shareholders in managerial 
directors is low.
judgment. We believe that in the case where a major 
  For companies that have a major shareholder or those that have 
shareholder company exists, further guarantee on the 
introduced takeover defense measures, and others, we give especially 
structure side is needed for protection of minority 
serious consideration to the sufficiency of ratio of outside directors.
shareholders.
Proposals concerning the election and dismissal of outside directors
Criteria
Embedded Ideas of the Criteria 
(In the case of the conflict with the guidelines, we may vote against the proposal)
  An outside director attends less than 80% of meetings of the board of  This is an idea that outside directors are required to 
directors, or a number of assignments served by outside director is  appropriately supervise business management as a 
extremely large representative of minority shareholders, preferably 
  Independence (major shareholders, parent company, major trading  they should have a high level of effectiveness and 
partners, counsel agreements, long term of office, etc.) independence.
Proposals concerning officer compensation, etc.
Criteria
Embedded Ideas of the Criteria
(In the case of the conflict with the guidelines, we may vote against the proposal)
  Appropriateness of the compensation amount; linkage with 
This is an idea that we shall focus on whether 
performance; appropriateness of stock options such as details leading 
compensation incentivizes them properly, and whether 
to their provision, the timing of exercise, and the number granted; 
it is not excessively paid. It is also an idea that 
involvement of outside directors and the compensation committee 
preferably transparency of the process of determine 
and adequacy of disclosure
compensation is ensured by involvement of outside 
  Recipients of stock options include outside directors, directors who 
directors and the compensation committee.
are audit committee members, auditors, and outsiders.
Sustainability Report 2020 16
010_0378979832011.indd   16 2020/11/27   11:46:56
Stewardship Activities
Results of the Exercise of Voting Rights
Results of exercise of proxy voting rights for Japanese equities at general meetings of shareholders from July 2019 
to June 2020 are as follows. Details are disclosed on our website (https://www.smd-am.co.jp/english/corporate/
responsible_investment/voting/report/).
 Supported     Opposed
Appointment and dismissal of 
1 18,031 74.1% 25.9%
directors
Appointment and dismissal of audit & 
2,573 70.3% 29.7%
supervisory board members 
Appointment and dismissal of 
68 98.5% 1.5%
accounting auditors
 
s
l Executive compensation 808 86.1% 13.9%
a
s
o
p Payment of retirement benefits 169 8.9% 91.1%
o
r Appropriation of retained 
p 1,578 93.3% 6.7%
earnings
 
r
o
Matters related to restructuring 35 100.0%
f
 y
e
sn Introduction, renewal, or abolition 
cipa of takeover defense measures 100 4.0% 96.0%
r
em
xo Other capital policy proposals 83 95.2% 4.8%
ec
f e  Partial amendment of the articles  496 96.0% 4.0%
o of incorporation
h
 
st
um  Other proposals 6 16.7% 83.3%
t
ao
Stfr Total number of resolutions 23,947 75.1% 24.9%
 Supported     Opposed
Appointment and dismissal of 
2 65 15.4% 84.6%
directors
Appointment and dismissal of audit & 
3 100.0%
supervisory board members 
s
r Executive compensation 11 54.6% 45.5%
e
d
ol Appropriation of retained 
7 14.3% 85.7%
 h earnings
re
e fohar Ionft rtoakdeuocvtieorn d, erefenneswea ml, oear saubroelsition  2 100.0%
ss
i 
cm
r Other capital policy proposals 7 14.3% 85.7%
eo
xr
f els f Pofa irnticaol rapmoerantdiomnent of the articles  113 2.7% 97.4%
oa
 s
uso Other proposals 1 100.0%
p
t
ao
tr
Sp Total number of resolutions 209 11.0% 89.0%
* For the composition ratio in the above chart, as the figures are rounded off to the nearest tenth, the total ratio may not be 100%.
17 Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset Management
010_0378979832011.indd   17 2020/11/27   11:46:57
Observation about the Results of Exercise of Voting Rights
The high objection rate regarding company-
proposed resolutions differentiate us from 
other asset managers.
Taking this opportunity, I would like to tell my observation about 
the result of exercise of voting rights at general meetings from July  Hideki 
2019 to June 2020 described in the previous page.
Kawanabe
I can say that the high objection rate regarding company-
proposed resolutions is unique to the Company. Looking at the  Responsible Investment 
Section
results by item, the highest objection rate is for proposals for 
Senior Analyst
introduction, renewal, or abolition of takeover defense measures. 
As an asset manager that manages important funds of 
beneficiaries, we basically take a position against takeover 
defense measures that may give rise to the possibility of self-
protection of the management. We have made it a practice to 
support only if a takeover defense scheme is disclosed in detail, 
exercise conditions are limited to abusive buyers and we could 
confirm elimination of arbitrariness through dialogue.
The second highest rate of opposition votes is for payment of 
retirement benefits. We vote against if the amount of retirement 
benefits for directors has not been disclosed. In case of retirement 
benefits for directors, we see very often that persons eligible to be  proposal, we exercise voting rights based on the thought that we 
granted are disclosed while the total number of payments is not  would like to maintain an adequate tension with investee 
clarified and left entirely up to the company. Compared with  companies through the exercise of voting rights and lead it to 
companies in Europe and the United States, Japanese companies  further improvement of corporate value. While we have 
are less willing to disclose compensation. established and disclosed guidelines for the exercise of voting 
The opposition rate for proposals for appointment and dismissal  rights, these are for investee companies to easily understand 
of directors was 25.9%. In light of materiality of directors’  problem consciousness of investors, rather than for automatic 
management, we have carefully examined proposals from various  exercise. As situations varies among investee companies, we try 
perspectives. We may oppose if ROE fell below the average for  to appropriately exercise voting rights with due understanding of 
listed companies for three consecutive years. Nearly half of  the situation through daily dialogues.
reasons for opposition to appointment and dismissal of directors 
were ROE.
Flexible responses in the exercise of voting 
rights in light of impact of the new coronavirus 
What we are aware in the exercise of 
disease (COVID-19) at present
voting rights
At present, because there are concerns about voluntary restraint 
In the exercise of voting rights, it is necessary to assess the  and stagnancy of corporate activities due to the global spread of 
company from various perspectives. Recently, product quality- COVID-19, we have also flexibly applied the guidelines to 
related misconducts have also come to an issue even in major  managerial decisions to secure internal reserves for corporate 
companies that are representative of Japan. Furthermore, amid  sustainability or to give priority to investments in anticipation of 
the globalization of corporate activities, some insufficiently  post-COVID-19 society.
managed overseas subsidiaries engaged in accounting  As we enhanced capability to promote responsible investments 
misconduct. In such situations, not only corporate earnings , but  through the merger of Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management and 
also whether any misconduct that may ruin social credibility has  Daiwa SB Investments in April 2019, the number and scope of 
occurred, whether an effective governance structure has been  dialogues with investee companies have also been expanding 
demonstrated are important factors for voting decisions. more than ever before. Although time is physically limited as most 
The Company not only conducts investment surveys focusing  of Japanese companies hold their general meetings of 
on earnings forecasts, but also actively exchanges opinions with  shareholders in June, we as a fiduciary of client funds will 
investee companies on voting rights and governance in order to  effectively exercise valuable proxy voting rights on behalf of 
make effective voting decisions that contribute to improving  beneficiaries.
corporate value. Although we may consequently vote against a 
Sustainability Report 2020 18
010_0378979832011.indd   18 2020/11/27   11:46:58
Stewardship Activities
Participation in Global Initiatives
To fulfill stewardship responsibilities as a responsible institutional investor, the Company has signed and accepted 
various global initiatives. We work cooperatively with other investors, and conduct engagement with investee 
companies. Here are major initiatives we participate.
UN Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI)
The UN Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), which was released by then UN 
Secretary-General Kofi Annan in April 2006, are principles aimed to improve long-term 
investment performance for customers and final beneficiaries by being incorporated into the 
investment process, of institutional investors with understanding of ESG issues. Currently, the 
Company has received the highest rank “A+” in the comprehensive assessment (strategy and 
governance) by PRI and enjoys high acclaim.
ACGA (Asian Corporate Governance Association)
ACGA is a non-profit organization mainly based in Hong Kong, which was established with 
the objective of working to improve corporate governance in Asian markets in 1999 based on 
the idea that corporate governance is an indispensable element for long-term growth of the 
Asian economy and capital markets.
Principles for Financial Action towards a Sustainable Society 
(so called Principles for Financial Actions for the 21st Century)
Principles for Financial Actions for the 21st Century are principles compiled in October 2011 
as action guidelines for financial institutions that want to fulfill responsibilities and roles 
necessary to form a sustainable society.
TCFD (Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures) and TCFD forum
TCFD was established in April 2015 by the Financial Stability Board at the request of G20. As 
the possibility of climate changes threatening the stability of financial systems has been 
increasing, the task force was set up to discuss the disclosure of information on climate 
change and how financial institutions should respond.
CA100+ (Climate Action 100+)
Climate Action 100+ is a collective engagement program which identifies and conducts 
engagements with over 100 global companies that release a large amount of greenhouse gas 
emissions, aiming to achieve the Paris Agreement. This program is to be implemented over 
five years from December 2017. From the standpoint of asset management, it asks for 
reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, monitoring of climate change-related risks and 
opportunities, and improvement of environmental information disclosure in line with the TCFD.
30% Club Japan Investor Group
30% Club, which was founded in the United Kingdom in 2010, is a global campaign aimed at 
an increase of the proportion of women on seats in companies’ important decision-making 
bodies, including the board of directors. Its Japanese body, 30% Club Japan, went into 
action in May 2019. Investor Group aims to share the importance of gender diversity with the 
management of investee companies and to exercise influence in achieving the goal.
19 Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset Management
010_0378979832011.indd   19 2020/11/27   11:46:58
Status of Responses to Japan’s Stewardship Code（Principles for Responsible Institutional Investors）
The Company has expressed the acceptance of the Stewardship Cord. With a view to increasing medium- to long-
term investment returns that will be interests of customers and beneficiaries, we have been proactively working on 
stewardship activities aiming to encourage investee companies to enhance their corporate value as well as  on 
ESG investment including analysis and assessment of non-financial and medium- to long-term factors of investee 
companies and incorporation of such investments into the investment process. The following is a summary of our 
achievement pertaining to the Stewardship Code in fiscal 2019 and our policy for the future. The details are dis-
closed on our website (https://www.smd-am.co.jp/english/corporate/responsible_investment/stewardship/self_
evaluation/).
Principle Achievement in fiscal 2019 Policies for the future
Enhance initiatives to increase 
medium- to long-term cash flow of 
1
Policies  Announced policies of the Company after merger investee companies, leading to 
continuous improvement in 
shareholder value
 A nnounced the management policy for main conflict types
Further strengthen the structure 
 Held Responsible Investment Committee (quarterly)
2 Managing conflicts through monitoring of potential 
 U  tilize a proxy advisory firm (ex. voting for share-
conflict of interests by the 
 of interest holder companies)
Responsible Investment Committee
 Disclosed individual voting results (quarterly)
 H  eld dialogues including medium- to long-term 
Accurate  Further improve analysis and 
managerial issues (1,270 cases)
3 evaluation abilities for medium- to 
understanding of   M  ade ESG evaluation by analysts (more than 700 companies)
long-term non-financial information 
 M  aintained the highest rank, A+, in the 
company information comprehensive assessment of PRI including ESG factors
 E ncouraged investee companies to improve corpo-
Further enhance exclusive engagement 
rate value and sustainability
4 Dialogues with  activities while taking advantage of the 
 G  ave feedback about results of the exercise of 
framework of collective engagement 
companies voting rights
appropriately
 E ncouraged disclosure on responses to COVID-19
 U  tilize a proxy advisory firm (ex. voting for share- Make voting decisions taking the 
5 Exercise of voting  holder companies) current measures and future changes 
 D  isclosed individual voting results (quarterly) of investee companies into account 
rights *  Reasons for support have also been disclosed since general 
based on dialogues with them.
meetings of shareholders in April 2020.
 P ublished the engagement activities performance 
on our website
 U  sed a general-purpose reporting format (smart  Report efficiently and effectively, 
6 Reporting the status 
format) taking account of intentions from 
of initiatives  D  eveloped an ESG database (DB) various asset owners
 I nitiated the establishment of an engagement DB for 
assets other than stocks
 F ormed the highly diverse Board of Directors including 
three Outside Directors at the inception of a new company Strengthen the structure to manage 
Maintaining and 
 E nhanced manpower for analysts in charge of responsible  conflicts of interest and engagement 
7
developing  investment and corporate research capabilities, and further utilize 
 H  eld Stewardship Board/ESG Board meetings (monthly),  knowhow of the two former 
capabilities Responsible Investment Committee meeting (quarterly) companies
 U  pgraded ESG and engagement DBs
8 *  Because Principle 8 was newly established in the revision of the  Request a proxy advisory firm to 
Service providers code in March 2020, there is no related achievement for fiscal  appropriately fulfill stewardship 
2019. responsibilities
Sustainability Report 2020 20
010_0378979832011.indd   20 2020/11/27   11:46:58
ESG Integration
Basic Policy and Initiatives for ESG Investment
E S G
nvironment ocial overnance
Basic policy on ESG investment
We believe that non-financial information including environmental, social, and governance (ESG) is equally important as financial information 
for us to evaluate sustainability of businesses and impact on long-term profitability or mitigation of any damages of investee companies 
given the increasing interest on environmental changes and SDGs. In that context, we proactively take following actions.
1 We integrate analysis and evaluation of non-financial information including ESG into investment process of every 
product across variety of asset classes, taking account of characteristics of products. With our commitment to do 
this, we aim to be a front runner in the field of ESG investment.
s
e
i 2
c
i We exercise our voting rights taking into account engagement activities relating to ESG theme.
l
o
p
  3 We aim to contribute to increasing corporate value of investee companies through  engagement activities with them 
c where we communicate our views as well as clarify ESG agendas they should address to enhance their value or to 
i
s mitigate any damages.
a
B
4
We also encourage corporations to disclose more detailed information of ESG related policies and actions, which 
we believe leads to favorable reputation among capital market participants.
In summary, through these actions, we as a responsible institutional investor will fulfill our fiduciary duties by providing good quality 
investment returns leveraging analysis and evaluation of non-financial information including ESG.
21 Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset Management
010_0378979832011.indd   21 2020/11/27   11:46:59
ESG integration
In principle, the Company, under the Basic policy on ESG investment, invites all of fund managers and analysts engaged with active investment 
management products to take into account ESG factors, which are material to corporate sustainability, in the course of the investment process*.
*  This principle may not apply to passive investment management products and others such as long/short products that are technically difficult to accord with the 
principle.
1. When we concern the sustainability of corporations due to outcome of our internal ESG research or acknowledgement of any 
misconducts, we will examine materiality of the incident and difficulty to recover through various means such as interviews and decide to 
add to negative list if necessary. Such a decision is made by Responsible Investment Officer after deliberation at ESG Meeting. 
Meanwhile, fund managers and analysts in cooperation with Responsible Investment Section conduct engagements and exercise voting 
rights to prompt investee companies to appropriately address critical issues.
2. We take ESG factors into consideration as a material element to evaluate sustainability when we make investment decisions. In particular, 
we incorporate analysis and evaluation of ESG factors into security selection process to the extent suitable for characteristics of each 
investment product so that we are able to deliver stable return in the long run. (consideration of sustainability in investment decisions) 
3. We continuously monitor ESG related indicators including greenhouse gas emissions at a portfolio level. Measuring results is evaluated 
and reflected to investment process going forward as appropriate.
4. We continuously enhance various ESG integration methods including security screening, engagement activity and the extent of ESG 
evaluation taken into account in portfolio construction. With these efforts, we will try to increase a number of products for which ESG 
factors are more actively integrated. We will also monitor and improve effectiveness of ESG integration.
Types of ESG integration
Social Contribution-Thematic/
Name Standard Sustainability Focus
Impact Investment
Manage funds or portfolio with  Manage funds or portfolio by selecting  Manage funds or portfolio by 
sustainability-related risks and  companies, among extensive  investing in companies that 
opportunities being as one of important  investment universes, that excel in the  contribute to improvement of 
factors in investment decisions. In  sustainability characteristic by qualitative  sustainability of society such as 
addition to the case where certain  or quantitative methods or companies  SDGs.
companies and sectors set forth in the  that are expected to improve the 
Definition
investment guidelines are excluded,  characteristic through engagement 
there are cases where the Company  activities.
places limits, at its discretion, on holding 
of companies in which material 
problems and concerns are raised for 
sustainability.
n* Negative screening Same as on the left Positive screening
o
ati Screening Exclude companies restricted by investment guidelines  Depending on investment methods for products, may apply some  Apply a certain criteria to define 
gr or companies the Company considers ineligible restriction for security selection based on sustainability evaluation investable universe
e
SG Int Engagement CESoGns itdheerm the ef onre eeadc fho rin evnegstaegee mcoemntp wanityh,   SDaempee nadsi nogn  othne i nlevfetstment methods for  Same as on the left
E and conduct engagement if necessary products, may conduct additional engagement
of 
s  Evaluate sustainability as one of  Define how to evaluate sustainability  Same as on the left
ctor Consideration of sustainability important factors in investment  and use the outcome within investment 
a decisions process clearly and specifically.
F
In principle, all active investment   • Japan Equity New Alpha Fund  •  Japan Impact Fund
products   • Japan Equity Quality Focus Fund  •  Global Impact Fund
Products* (excluding products shown on the right)  • Japan Equity Engagement Strategy  •  Global SDGs Equity Fund
 • Japan Equity ESG Fund  •  Global SDGs High Income Fund
(as of the end of August 2020)  • Japan Bond Credit Active type
 •  Japan Equity Value  
(TOPIX, Large Cap)
* The funds managed by external investment managers may not partially be relevant due to the managers’ investment methods.
Sustainability Report 2020 22
010_0378979832011.indd   22 2020/11/27   11:46:59
ESG Integration
Unique ESG Scores
We calculate ESG scores based on our proprietary methodology and now evaluate over 700 companies. Features of 
the Company’s ESG evaluation are as follows. ESG scores are actually utilized within investment process of our 
investment funds.
Our ESG evaluation consists of two components: basic evaluation based on published information on the company, and 
Feature
analyst evaluation leveraging dialogues with the company
1
(1) Basic evaluation
    Analysts at Responsible Investment Section make the evaluation based on the information provided by third-parties 
such as external ESG research institutions.
(2) Analyst evaluation
    Sector Analysts at Corporate Research Group make the evaluation based on qualitative information obtained through 
their own research and analysis as well as dialogues with investee companies.
For both basic evaluation and analyst evaluation, items have been set uniquely, and prospect forecasts are incorporated in 
Feature
analyst evaluation.
2
We employed the bottom-up method where detailed items in E, S and G are respectively evaluated for each company.
In addition, analyst evaluation also incorporates the item of possibility for future changes.
ESG evaluation process
  Based on published information showing    Based on information obtained through 
past results proprietary research and dialogues.
Basic  Analyst 
  Utilizing objective third-party information   Analysts’ insights on sustainability
evaluation evaluation
  Measuring the degree of information    Incorporating the possibility for future 
disclosure changes
  A five-grade evaluation is made for each detailed item to create a refined score book.
(Companies with a good evaluation)
ESG 
  Having excellent potential for sustainable growth and high sustainability
evaluation
  Having great ability to respond to changes in external circumstances
  Having a high possibility of creating desirable changes such as responses to issues and leading innovation
Utilization of ESG scores in dialogues with companies and investment decisions
  An example of aspects to be given a high evaluation
E:  Precise recognition of environmental risks and appropriate measures to address those risks. Excellence in provision of 
environment-related products and services.
(Example) •  There are few business areas that could be affected by environmental issues, or even if there is any such area, it is 
managed properly.
  •  There are few products or services with environmental load, or even if there is any such product or service, the 
level of environmental load has been kept under control through appropriate measures.
  •  The company continues to develop products and services that cope with environmental issues. The company has 
extremely a high level of relevant technological capabilities and the scale of potential market is large.
23 Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset Management
010_0378979832011.indd   23 2020/11/27   11:46:59
Fund Manager’s Viewpoint (Japanese Equity Quants Strategy)
The Quantitative Investment Group  I will give a little explanation of item (1). In terms of corporate 
value calculation, lower capital cost will lead to improvement in 
manages funds specialized in ESG. How 
future sustainability and is expected to bring an improvement of 
does the team leverage ESG 
medium- to long-term corporate value. We believe that this 
information in security selection?
chance will increase for companies whose ESG scores are 
In the funds we manage, we focus on changes in companies’  expected to improve. On the other hand, if we confirm that 
efforts to address ESG issues in security selection. investee companies’ capital cost tends to increase or deteriorate 
We believe that companies that show progress on improvement  in sustainability, I ask our in-house analysts with a concern of 
in ESG evaluation can be expected to be more profitable by  decrease in companies’ corporate value to revisit ESG 
improving the corporate value through lowering capital cost. We  evaluation.
can say this point is extremely different from other ESG funds that 
invest in companies with a high ESG evaluation. As for item (2), there is a risk of a steep fall in stock prices in the 
In selecting stocks, we make examination through two  short term. In some cases, if the market judges that impact on 
evaluations: “basic evaluation” to evaluate companies’ efforts for  the finance is limited, or the company has subsequently taken 
ESG based on published materials such as annual reports; and  sufficient recurrence prevention measures, the stock prices may 
“analyst evaluation” to indicate the potential based on insights of  recover. However, because there is a risk that the corporate 
our in-house analysts who are well-versed in corporate research  culture is problematic and a misconduct might take place again, 
and gather information through dialogues directly with the top  I ask analysts to examine details and severity of incidents and 
management. review whether the ESG evaluation should be changed.
Based on this process, the following are candidate stocks for 
our portfolio.
•  Stocks with a high scores in both “basic evaluation” and “analyst 
evaluation.” This means companies are making excellent efforts 
for ESG and also expected to show steady progress in the 
efforts.
•  Stocks with score of “analyst evaluation” surpassing that of 
“basic evaluation.” This means companies’ efforts for ESG are 
underestimated and expected to improve in the future.
We capture changes in companies’ efforts to address ESG 
issues by investing in these two types of stocks then aim to bring 
in returns efficiently using the quantitative mechanism.
You have made investments based on 
your own ESG evaluation. How do you 
collaborate with in-house analysts?
I think benefits from ESG investment can be gained over the 
medium- to long-term. Therefore, we observe the followings as 
essential monitoring items in investment management.
(1) “capital cost” utilized as a surrogate variable for sustainability, 
and 
(2) “news on misconducts of companies.”  Hiromasa Morioka
Head of Quantitative Investment Group, Investment Department
Sustainability Report 2020 24
010_0378979832011.indd   24 2020/11/27   11:47:00
ESG Integration
Fund Manager’s Viewpoint (REIT)
in the Region ex Japan and achieved the level of research that is 
just as good as J-REIT.
In individual meetings with REITs where we make proposal for 
managerial strategy, request for tangible improvement for 
information disclosure and discuss about exercise of voting rights, 
we deepen dialogues by utilizing analysis of ESG evaluation and 
strive to increase shareholders’ value through discovery of hidden 
value. Particularly, in engagements with overseas REITs, the 
Singapore base’s strong ties with the top management of REITs 
are our big advantage.
Focus on measures in the “S: society” 
field amid the COVID-19 crisis
In response to the spread of new coronavirus disease (COVID-19) 
from the beginning of this year, REIT investors’ interest in REIT 
ESG is expected to grow from now on. Until recently, attention 
has been given to “E: environment” and “G: governance” such as 
Etsuro Akiyama environmental issues including reduction of CO2 emissions, 
internal control structure and information disclosure. Currently, 
Unit Leader of REIT Unit, Investment Department
efforts for “S: society” by REITs, which have not been envisioned 
before are drawing attention. For example, some hotel REIT 
Incorporating unique ESG evaluation  provided its properties as isolation facilities for affected individuals 
with only minor symptoms while some commercial facility REIT 
into REIT investment strategy
responds to requests by its tenants for reduction of rents or 
We have managed J-REIT strategy since spring 2007 and Asia  extension of payment. Taking this opportunity, we believe the 
and Oceania REIT strategy since autumn of the said year, and  importance of ESG factors will also increase further in REIT 
now covers approximately 90%* of REITs in the Asia and Oceania  investment strategy.
region including Japan (hereinafter, “the Region”). To this end, we are willing to implement ESG research, 
* Calculation based on the market cap of S&P REIT Index component. engagement and exercise of voting rights with high aspirations to 
ESG integration for REIT strategy has begun penetrating the  contribute to enhanced sustainability of the entire REIT market in 
Region only in recent years, following Europe and the US. In our  the Region. Also we will continuously improve our ESG evaluation 
REIT investment strategy, we first developed our own ESG  methods taking into account changes in the external environment 
evaluation for J-REIT, then expanded the coverage to the Region  so as to improve shareholders’ value through engagement. Then, 
as a whole in 2019. we aim to develop REIT ESG research into one of core sources of 
To develop our ESG evaluation, we added evaluation items  excess return.
reflecting analysis of information collected ourselves to scores 
of GRESB, an external ESG research institute, which are 
regarded as a global standard in the real estate industry, and 
adjusted the evaluation items and content for country by 
country, taking into account characteristics of each REIT 
market. This enabled cross-country comparison and detailed 
analysis of REITs in the Region in terms of ESG evaluation. 
These ESG evaluation scores are utilized as one of the 
important analytical factors from a multifaceted perspective, 
together with metrics such as PER, in the stage of stock 
selection within investment process.
Based in Singapore, developing engagement 
activities in the Asia and Oceania region
Detailed local research including ESG and individual meetings with 
REITs have been conducted for J-REIT by the Tokyo based team 
and for Asia and Oceania REIT by the Singapore based team 
respectively. Our two dedicated REIT analysts in Singapore office  Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset Management (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.
have accumulated research know-how in J-REIT and have  Tomoya Nose Junnosuke Shinkawa
established trust relationships with the top management of REITs  Analyst Senior Fund Manager
25 Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset Management
010_0378979832011.indd   25 2020/11/27   11:47:01
Fund Manager’s Viewpoint (Fixed Income Credit Strategy)
What are features of fixed income ESG 
integration of the Company?
It is “ESG estimation rating model” that makes our fixed income 
credit investment process unique as the model incorporates ESG 
scores as explanatory variable to determine credit standing of 
individual issues. Although it is already common in Japan that 
credit analysts take ESG scores into account as a source of 
qualitative judgment to select securities, the Company tries to 
estimate credit rating based on non-financial information (ESG) 
utilizing the propriety quantitative model, in addition to 
determination of credit standing by analysts based on financial 
information, in its active fixed income credit investment strategy.
We can say that negative screening utilizing our quantitative 
model to sort out companies that are likely to be downgraded in 
addition to the common evaluation method using ESG scores, is 
a unique ESG integration method even on a global basis.
Yuji Hatakeyama
Senior Fund Manager, Investment Department
What is the “ESG estimation rating model”?
This model is to estimate credit rating with only ESG scores as an 
explanatory variable using the method of machine learning.  In the investment process, credit analysts review credit rating of 
Datasets used as an explanatory variable are based on ESG  issuers in these lists, reflect the results in various internal 
scores provided by the Responsible Investment Section. The  indicators such as internal rating, individual factor score and R 
accuracy of the model is equivalent to or more than traditional,  rating. Analysts share their views based on their analytical work 
popular credit rating estimation models which rely primarily on  with fund managers at credit meetings so that fund managers can 
financial data. The model is periodically verified by extending the  make investment decisions.
learning period. We, Fixed Income team, had closely worked with 
the Responsible Investment Section and the Investment Planning 
Fixed income engagement/overseas credit
Department to develop the model through trial and error, and put 
it into use in FY2018. From the perspective of not only eliminating unexpected credit 
With this model, securities in the domestic universe are  risks but also implementing the Stewardship Code, we consider 
screened based on objective criteria eliminating arbitrariness as  fixed income engagement as important part of our investment 
indicated below. Because we can refer to the direction of credit  activities. For domestic credit strategy in particular, engagement 
rating changes estimated based on the systematic ESG  activities are recorded and properly followed-up have been 
evaluation, credit analysts can be more conscious of ESG factors  developed and progress is shared among investment 
in determining credit rating. professionals at credit meetings as well as Stewardship Meetings 
  “ESG estimation rating” surpasses “credit rating”  and ESG Meetings, which are cross-sectional meeting structures.
       Used as indication of “upgraded” With regard to global credit strategy, we have also introduced 
  “ESG estimation rating” is at the same level as “credit rating”  ESG integration where credit analysts give three-grade “ESG 
       Used as indication of “unchanged” outlook” to each security in the universes of Americas, Europe, 
  “ESG estimation rating” falls below “credit rating”  Australia and China. Such an ESG outlook is taken into account 
       Used as indication of “downgraded” to determine credit rating as well as to sort out securities not 
qualified for investment.
As only a few years have passed since rating agencies began 
ESG integration in investment process
specifying ESG factors clearly in their rating methodology, fixed 
Japan credit team prepares the following lists by two types of  income investors are still challenged in terms of effective systems 
negative screening of securities in the universe every month. of ESG investment management. We would like to improve our 
(1)  “ESG negative list”: The list consists of issues for which the  analytical capabilities and quality of investment management for 
ESG estimation rating model indicates downgrade fixed income ESG investment and make it a stable source of 
(2)  “ESG monitoring list”: The list consists of issues for which our  excess returns.
own ESG scores fall below a certain threshold.
Sustainability Report 2020 26
010_0378979832011.indd   26 2020/11/27   11:47:01
ESG Integration
Corporate Research Analyst’s View
business plans are important events for us to make ESG 
evaluation, analysts’ insightfulness is tested for companies’ 
“management commitment” and “execution abilities” there.
These are our basic approach for ESG information, and for 
each industry, we research impact of certain ESG factors on 
competitive advantages. For example, the issue of marine 
pollution caused by plastic waste such as plastic bags and 
straws has prompted discussions around the world on plastic 
reduction. It is essential to analyze how these developments 
will impact each company in the chemical industry five to ten 
years from now. While demand for disposable plastic is 
declining, biodegradable plastics that are eventually dissociated 
into carbon dioxide and water due to biodegradability are 
expected to be widely used for food packaging materials, 
agricultural and civil engineering materials, marine materials, 
etc. In addition, the market for plastics made of reusable 
biomass resources is also expected to expand to prevent 
global warming and reduce dependence on fossil resources.
As such, we feel the importance of appropriately evaluating 
corporate value by taking the ESG perspective is growing to 
understand future business opportunities and risks.
Current status and future challenges in 
Shinji Asai
corporate evaluation
Head of Corporate Research Group, Investment Department
While analysts’ basic activity is to forecast upcoming earnings 
through analysis of financial information, ESG evaluation must 
ESG evaluation approach by corporate 
be directly or indirectly reflected in the calculation of corporate 
research analysts
value. Analysts and fund managers will determine how ESG 
We widely cover basic ESG information described in  scores will be used in the investment process, depending on 
environmental reports and annual reports in detail, efficiently  nature of each fund product.
utilizing external database. On the other hand, ESG information  What we emphasize is “degree of improvement” in 
on which we, as analysts, focus is fresh information obtained  companies’ approach to efforts for ESG. In case analysts 
through day-to-day interviews with investee companies. For  decide it will improve in the future despite the current low ESG 
example, we evaluate adequacy of information disclosure,  evaluation, we grant the outlook of improving direction 
degree of management commitment, effectiveness of the risk  (deteriorating direction in an opposite case) to the company. If 
management system, potential of environmentally compatible  such dynamic ESG evaluation can show influences on 
products, and so on. Because it is difficult to establish  corporate valuation, the importance of ESG scores in the 
objective criteria common to industries facing different  investment process will grow further. Furthermore, we 
environments and challenges to be addressed, the evaluations  recognizes that in the future, it will be our challenge to evaluate 
are made based on judgment of analysts. Specifically, analysts  corporate value from ESG viewpoint over the long-term by 
compare companies in the same industry that they are in  various means including quantitative evaluation of stranded 
charge of and make a relative evaluation. This is a scene where  assets to incorporate non-financial information into financial 
analysts demonstrate their experience of watching companies  data.
and deep knowledge of the industry. In addition, while 
management changes and announcement of medium-term 
27 Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset Management
010_0378979832011.indd   27 2020/11/27   11:47:01
Application of ESG Research to Global Equity Strategy
“Analyst evaluation” emphasizes the positive side (opportunities) 
related to ESG in addition to the negative side (risks). In 
development of the evaluation method, analysts specialized in 
ESG and sector analysts in charge of industries work together to 
prepare the industry-specific evaluation guidelines that reflect the 
most material ESG issues for each industry.
Examples of successful investment due to focus on 
opportunities include a US-based container manufacturer that 
benefited from demand shift from plastic bottles with large 
environmental burden to aluminum cans with good recyclability, 
and a US utility company that became a winner in the industry by 
switching to environmentally-friendly power generation from early 
on.
Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset Management (Hong Kong) Limited
Junichi Sakaguchi Jane Ye Wataru Terada
The trend of emphasis on ESG, led by 
General Manager, Asia Research Center Fund Manager ESG Analyst
Europe, is also irreversible in Asia
ESG evaluation is a key component for analysts’  Now ESG is one of issues to be considered first in corporate 
analysis. This is because environment and social issues have 
rating recommendation
been becoming more important to investors. This is particularly 
At the Company, overseas offices in Hong Kong, Singapore,  notable in the tiers called Millennial Generation and Generation Z. 
Shanghai and London and the Tokyo headquarters work closely  Companies that appropriately respond to this trend are highly 
to conduct research and investment management of our global  evaluated, and evaluation of those which do otherwise will be 
equities, and the evaluation of ESG factors is integrated in each  inevitably downgraded. Such a trend is the most prominent in 
stage of the investment process. For example, for Asian equities,  Europe. As both institutional investors and individual investors 
we started ESG evaluation centered on governance in 2013,  want to be responsible investors, improvement of ESG evaluation 
strengthened evaluation of society and environment as part of  is a driver of excess return. Investors’ awareness of ESG risks 
ESG integration in 2018, and sophisticated the system as  remains low in emerging markets including Asia and companies’ 
“SMDAM ESG Rating” in December 2019. We have come to be  efforts are lagging. However, as investors all over the world are 
able to understand possible risks and opportunities that might be  strengthening the perspective of sustainability, it is no doubt the 
overlooked in the research centered on financial analysis, by  trend of focusing on ESG will also progress steadily without going 
quantifying ESG-related risks of individual companies. ESG  backward in Asia including China.
evaluation is now a component of analysts’ rating  We believe that ESG integration increases the accuracy of each 
recommendation as being critical and essential, just like evaluation  investment decision and enhance robustness of the investment 
of corporate value centered on financial analysis, to the pursuit of  process in the medium- to long-term. We will exert all possible 
long-term investment performance. efforts to offer investment performance of the highest quality to 
In incorporating ESG factors in the investment process, we first  customers. ESG integration is one of such efforts.
focus on contributing to investment performance and redesigned 
the entire process rather than adding these factors to the existing 
process. As a result, we feel proudly that our investment process 
has a competitive advantage not only in Asian markets that are  Sumitomo Mitsui 
still in an immature state in terms of penetration of ESG but also  DS Asset Management (UK) Limited
even in European markets that are ESG-conscious. Steven Muspratt
Analyst
ESG evaluation focuses on not only 
risks but opportunities
“SMDAM ESG Rating” consists of “basic evaluation” to 
comprehensively understand current ESG risks and “analyst 
evaluation” made by sector analysts in charge of the industry in 
light of their own interviews and future prospects.
Sustainability Report 2020 28
010_0378979832011.indd   28 2020/11/27   11:47:02
Initiatives Regarding Fiduciary Duties and More Sophisticated Investment Management
Initiatives Regarding Fiduciary Duties
Initiatives to Date
In August 2015, ahead of the Financial Services Agency’s enactment of the Principles for Customer-Oriented Business Conduct, we 
announced “Our Commitment to Fiduciary Duties” and established a basic policy to be observed by all officers and employees as an asset 
management company entrusted with customers’ important funds. In October 2015, we established the FD Third-Party Committee, which 
is composed of outside experts, as an advisory body to the CEO, and established a system to reflect the perspectives of third parties in our 
business operations. Since then, we have undertaken a variety of initiatives to contribute to the long-term asset building of our customers, 
including reviewing our dividend distribution policy, preparing easy-to-understand customer briefing materials, and managing life stage-
oriented products.
In August 2020, we added sustainability element to “Our Commitment to Fiduciary Duties” and clarified our roles and responsibilities as 
an asset manager and a corporate citizen to establish the “Principles of Fiduciary Duties and Sustainability.” Going forward, we will continue 
to firmly conduct customer-oriented business operations while also striving to contribute to the sustainability of society as a whole.
Highlight of initiatives regarding fiduciary duties
August 2015 Announced “Our Commitment to Fiduciary Duties” and “Our Fiduciary Action Plans”
October 2015 Established FD Third-Party Committee
December 2015 Initiated easy-to-understand customer briefing materials
April 2016 Reviewed our dividend distribution policy
October 2016 Disclosed the progress of the Action Plan
May 2018 Launched life stage-oriented products
June 2018 Added performance indicators (KPIs)
April 2020 Reorganized FD Advisory Board into FD and Sustainability Meeting
Announced “Principles of Fiduciary Duties and Sustainability”, which added elements of sustainability to the Our 
August 2020 Commitment to Fiduciary Duties and clarify our roles and responsibilities as an asset management company and 
a corporate citizen.
FD and Sustainability Meeting
Five years has already passed since we started proactive  For our customers, our goal is to build relationships between 
initiatives with the broad objective of “fulfilling investment  buyers and sellers who exchange views on an equal footing, as 
responsibilities.” In the meantime, we have taken the lead in the  we move from “ignoring asymmetric information between the 
industry to take on the challenge of transformation without any  industry and our customers” to “disclosing information in an easy-
exceptions. to-understand manner,” eventually to “commitment to improving 
financial literacy.”
Asset management is also in the midst of persistent changes, 
and we have been reexamining our raison d’etre through a 
number of market crises. It is the promotion of ESG that means 
The source of sustainability lies in  rediscovery of our mission to create a circulation of funds that 
improves the world. Approximately 400 years has passed since 
striving to realize and 
stocks and bonds in their present form appeared in the world, 
provide truly appropriate  during which time portfolio management with the principle of 
diversification has only over 40 years of history. We need to 
quality to our customers  continue to further evolve our investment management capability 
and management philosophy. The philosophy that serves as the 
without forgetting 
guiding principle should be simple and clear. We aim to refine the 
confidence as a professional. philosophy of “three-ways satisfaction,” which means making our 
customers happy, giving employees pride, and leading the public 
acknowledgement of our existence. I think the key to adapting to 
the next generation will be digital transformation, which will help 
Susumu 
us extremely to provide investment management services.
Okamura Against the backdrop of frequent occurrence of global crises, 
we are under pressure to solve long-term industry issues as soon 
Chairperson as possible. We believe that the source of sustainability lies in 
President and CEO,  striving to develop and provide services with truly appropriate 
Education for Asian Talents quality to our customers without forgetting confidence as a 
professional.
29 Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset Management
010_0378979832011.indd   29 2020/11/27   11:47:02
Achievement in Fiscal 2019
In fiscal 2019, we steadily implemented 17 action plans, including the following examples.
We will verify the rationality and validity of management fees to satisfy our customers, and review them as necessary 
Action plan
(in accordance with Principle 4 of the Financial Services Agency of Japan’s Principles for Customer-Oriented Business Conduct).
  We confirmed that there was no difference in concepts of management fees between the two companies prior to 
Achievement
the merger and that management fees for existing publicly offered investment trusts were reasonable.
We will review the cost structure of the entire Company and improve productivity with the aim of improving the products and services we provide to customers
Action plan
(in accordance with Principle 2 of the Financial Services Agency of Japan’s Principles for Customer-Oriented Business Conduct).
  In addition to implementing various income and expenditure analyses, we are reviewing the flow of operations, including reporting, 
Achievement
settlement, and expense processing procedures, and digitalizing and moving forward with paperless operations, in order.
Performance Indicators (KPIs)
Number and proportion of funds with Morningstar Rating Overall 
Number of award-winning funds*2
of 4 Stars or more (net assets of 1.0 billion yen or more)*1
(number of funds) Number of funds with four stars or more       Proportion of funds with four stars or more (number of funds)
100 40 38
90
35
85
80 75 31
30
60
42.6% 43.4% 43.1% 20
40
10
20
0 0
At the end of March 2018 At the end of March 2019 At the end of March 2020 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019
AUM of life stage-oriented funds under management
Number of funds over 10 years since launch*3
Publicly offered investment trusts for  Publicly offered investment trusts with 
long-term asset building*4 periodical fixed-rate distribution*5
(number of funds) Net assets 30.0 billion yen or more        Net assets 10.0 billion yen to less than 30.0 billion yen (billion yen) (billion yen)
50 800.0 60.0
44 43
40 25 15 648.2 49.4
600.0 561.1
40.0
36.3
30
28 400.0
20
19 20.0
200.0
10
0 0 0
At the end of March 2019 At the end of March 2020 At the end of March 2019At the end of March 2020 At the end of March 2019At the end of March 2020
*1  Provided by Morningstar Japan K.K. (“Morningstar”) and calculated based on the risk-adjusted performance of funds within the category in five stars with the 
highest rating of five stars and the lowest rating of one. For details, please refer to Disclaimer on page 46.
*2  Sum of the Mercer MPA (Japan) Awards, Morningstar Award Fund of the Year, Thomson Reuters Lipper Fund Awards Japan, and the R&I Fund Award
*3  Number of funds with net assets of 10.0 billion yen or more
*4  The AUM of managed assets of publicly offered investment trusts for long-term asset building through systems such as DC, iDeCo, and Tsumitate NISA, and 
through direct sales via the Internet (including products sold for retail investors).
*5  Products aimed at making distributions in accordance with target distribution rates set beforehand
Sustainability Report 2020 30
010_0378979832011.indd   30 2020/11/27   11:47:03
Initiatives Regarding Fiduciary Duties and More Sophisticated Investment Management
Basic Concept for More Sophisticated Investment Management
We will strengthen R&D in 
investment technologies and 
products in order to 
accurately respond to 
diversifying customer needs.
Shingo Imai
Head of Investment Management Division
Director and Senior Managing Executive Officer
We have a long-standing strength in active investment, and are  group dedicated to research activities on advanced information 
ranked second in the questionnaire on customer satisfaction for  technology within the Investment Management Division. With this 
domestic equity investment management according to Rating and  organizational change, we will accelerate the advancement of our 
Investment Information, Inc. (“Newsletter on Pensions &  investment and the development of investment products using 
Investment” vol.821, February 3, 2020). In addition, we have  the latest technology. Furthermore, in order to respond quickly 
strong track records in REIT (Asian and Oceanian regions  and accurately to the increasing needs of customers for 
including Japan), domestic fixed income (credit), foreign fixed  alternatives in the prolonged low interest rate environment, the 
income (Mexican bonds) and other areas. With regard to Asian  Alternative Investment Department became under the direct 
stocks, we have established an investment management structure  control of CEO so as to enhance its capability.
closely linked to local markets at our overseas bases in Hong 
Kong, which plays a central role, and also in Singapore and  Besides organizational changes, it is also important how to put 
Shanghai. into practice the five codes of conduct (“sincerity,” “agility,” 
“challenge,” “passion,” and “teamwork”) so that not only from an 
Regarding initiatives for cutting-edge investment technology, we  organizational perspective, but also each and every employee can 
have engaged with joint research with National Institute of  demonstrate his or her abilities to the fullest. We share ideas and 
Informatics (NII) and other academic organizations. In addition, we  knowledge using in-house social media and are also working to 
have been providing publicly offered investment trusts leveraging  foster investment professionals through our training system.
research outcome on quantitative investment as well as AI/big 
data through collaboration with Nikko Global Wrap Ltd., our  Going forward, we will continue to strengthen R&D for new 
subsidiary and alliances with companies who provide AI solutions.  investment technologies and products and provide advanced 
In order to promote further sophistication of investment  products in a timely manner in order to accurately respond to the 
management through utilization of technology, we established a  diversifying needs of customers.
As investment professionals conscious of sustainability,  investment opportunities through establishing disciplined 
y
h
p we are committed to provide the “best in quality”  investment approaches to capture excess returns.
o
s performance over the medium- to long-term. In order to achieve this we shall execute the following.
o
hil In order to achieve this, we shall strive to provide   ∙  Conduct thorough & proprietary research on a global basis 
P
nt  stable returns by actively incorporating new investment  to reveal inefficiencies.
me methodologies and by responding to ever changing   ∙  Take appropriate risks driven by professional judgments and 
st market environments. based on risk tolerance levels.
e
nv Regarding active investments, we shall specify   ∙ Manage risks from multidimensional perspectives.
ur I existing market inefficiencies and turn them into   ∙  Control and improve product quality on an ongoing basis for 
O all investment processes.
31 Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset Management
010_0378979832011.indd   31 2020/11/27   11:47:03
Examples of Initiatives to Enhance Investment Management Capabilities
Case Study AI-based investment management in collaboration with Nikko Global Wrap
In collaboration with Nikko Global Wrap, we are developing funds utilizing deep learning, for which asset allocation is 
determined based on the AI model. For discretionary accounts and advisory contracts, the investment team provides 
recommendation on qualitative asset allocation of traditional assets, as well as manages multi-asset funds utilizing 
quantitative analysis models.
Q1   What are features of your asset allocation model? Q5   Could you explain any other initiatives that will lead to 
A1   Using a deep-learning model called Siamese Network multi- improved investment capabilities and areas that need 
layer neural network model, which is useful for time-series  further improvement in the future?
analyses, we predict the relative superiority and inferiority  A5   Regarding the deep learning model, we have made a 
among equities and bonds of Japan, the US, the UK and  system that constantly incorporates the latest market trends 
Germany. The results are used to determine asset weights  by regularly extending the learning period to the latest 
through optimization and to develop a long/short portfolio  period. The success or failure of the model is monitored at 
(within 200% of gross positions and 40% of net positions)  all times primarily by Nikko Global Wrap. As a fund, we 
by the underlying assets. Then, risk adjustment is applied to  strive to stabilize earnings by building a balance between 
determine the final portfolio. Our model is featured by a  net long and long positions and by ensuring that risk 
long/short position as a source of return under any market  positions are not biased toward specific assets in 
environment including current ultra-low interest rates, and  optimization.
also by the advanced method of the AI model.
  Even with a deep learning model, I think it is not easy to 
Q2   What kind of data do you use? respond stably to the ever-changing financial markets. We 
A2   In addition to general data such as valuations and technical  will continuously analyze successful and failed phases in our 
indicators for each asset, we use news sentiment, which is  investment management while we improve and upgrade 
a polarity judgment based on natural language processing,  our investment methods in collaboration with Nikko Global 
classified as so-called big data, as input data for learning. Wrap, which has expertise.
Q3   Could you tell us about successful examples of 
investment decisions?
A3   As an example in the simulation, at the time of the so-called 
VIX shock at the beginning of 2018, when the stock market 
plummeted twice, in February and in March, we secured 
stable earnings by reducing the net position of the entire 
equity in February, and in the case of March, taking short 
positions for the equity on the whole.
Q4   What types of customer segments do you think are 
beneficial?
A4   Due to the difference in decisions making process between 
our strategy that employs AI model and many others, 
customers can benefit diversifying effect to existing multi-
assets. We also believe that having long/short positions 
allows us to secure earnings opportunities without raising 
risk even in a low interest rate environment. For this reason, 
we believe that it serves as one of our clients’ core 
investment strategies aimed at securing stable earnings in a 
low interest rate environment, or as part of the diversification  Nikko Global Wrap Investment Department Nikko Global Wrap
strategy of clients that already have multi-asset funds. Shinichi Takahashi Mitsuru Hayakawa Yusuke Hori Koji Shimoyanagita
Managing  Senior Portfolio Manager, Quants  General 
Executive Officer Asset Allocation Group Analyst Manager
Sustainability Report 2020 32
010_0378979832011.indd   32 2020/11/27   11:47:04
Initiatives Regarding Fiduciary Duties and More Sophisticated Investment Management
Examples of Initiatives to Enhance Investment Management Capabilities
Case Study Industry-academics collaboration
As a result of joint research on a fully systematic 
management strategy based on mathematical models 
and credit models in collaboration with external 
research institutes and data vendors, we made 
presentations about Japan’s equity text analysis 
strategy and domestic and overseas Rachev 
strategies at academic conferences.
Q1   What kind of academic fields are used for R&D?
A1   We mainly use financial engineering based on probability 
Naoya Kawadai Takehide Hirose
and statistics, optimization theory, economics, and 
Senior Manager, Investment Development  Head of Investment Development Group, 
Group, Investment Department Investment Department accounting.
While involved in the development of funds based on 
Q2   What are your research achievements?
quantitative models as well as organizational  A2   In 2019, we conducted joint research with Keio University, 
operation, I am also engaged in research and  Financial Data Solutions Inc. and FactSet. In recognition of 
development including machine learning. its novelty in academic terms, the results were posted in 
two international academic journals, and we also made 
presentations at an academic conference in Seattle. The 
Q1   Please tell us a brief description of machine learning.
results are the Japanese equity text analysis strategy and 
A1   There are various types of machine learning. Among them, I 
the domestic and overseas Rachev strategy. In short, the 
will talk about a method called text mining. Text mining 
Rachev strategy is to systematically aggregate market 
allows us to treat textual information such as news and 
corporate documents in the same way as numbers. We  inefficiencies into a source of excess return. At the same 
input texts and human evaluation thereof into the calculator  time, the model takes into account risk control that can 
and analyze the relationship between the texts and  withstand challenges in actual asset management and 
evaluations with a neutral network-based model. trade costs. In fiscal 2020, we conducted joint research 
with outstanding people from outside the company, 
Q2   Specifically, what kind of sentences do you deal with? including from National Institute of Informatics (NII) and 
A2   If there is literal information available continuously and any  other organizations, under a new theme, with the aim of 
valuation about it, any textual information can be handled,  making achievements including our analysis of global equity 
but we mainly deal with what is expected to affect the stock 
text analysis strategy.
prices. For example, we mainly handle earnings reports and 
securities reports issued by companies as well as 
Q3   Could you tell us any ingenious attempt when utilizing 
comments from corporate analysts and Kaisha Shikiho. In 
that Rachev strategy for actual asset management?
addition, machine learning is evolving every day, so we are 
A3   Mathematical model-based asset management varies 
conducting joint research with Kobe University, partly for the 
depending on the investment target, and so it is extremely 
purpose of acquiring knowledge and brand new 
important to use some artistic skill, for example tuning the 
information. We expect models developed through joint 
model. That is, even if using the same model, the 
research to be applied for practical use in the near future.
performance of different managers varies widely. For 
Q3   What are the appeals, difficulties, and future aspirations  example, when the Rachev strategy is used to invest in the 
of R&D? Japanese market, it is important to consider how to 
A3   We will strive to research new types of data and analytical  incorporate the reversal factor into the model.
methods in order to meet customer expectations in product    Going forward, in addition to replicate our existing 
development and in the performance of products that we  strategies, we will strive to push effective new asset 
are entrusted with. management strategies forward with technology and art.
Takehide Hirose Naoya Kawadai
Head of Investment Development Group, Investment Department Senior Manager, Investment Development Group, Investment Department
33 Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset Management
010_0378979832011.indd   33 2020/11/27   11:47:04
Case Study Knowledge management
We use internal social media to share information across the Investment Management Division and the entire 
company, helping to visualize and share knowledge that serves as hints for product development and investment 
ideas.
demand of derivatives, with which people in the buy side 
are not very familiar.
Q3   Do you have many horizontal connections, not just within 
the department?
A3   Many of the discussion groups on our social media are 
operated on a company-wide basis, allowing all employees 
to read and post comments. Interactions on the internal 
social media sometimes develop into in-person workshops 
participated by employees from various departments. In 
2019, the Python study group chose The Self-Taught 
Programmer: The Definitive Guide to Programming 
Professionally (in Japanese translation) as a reference book 
to read through for 27 weeks (27 chapters in total). Group 
Shinichi Yano Yoshinobu Umemura
members described the code in practice, and check the 
Senior Manager,  Manager, 
Investment Planning Department Investment Planning Department progress with social media after reading, using the like 
button, and exchange information. More than 100 people 
Q1   What kind of information can you find on internal SNS?
joined this discussion group. In addition, interested 
A1   For example, the Investment Planning Department posts 
employees get together to host an ad hoc after-work 
news related to the domestic and overseas investment 
gathering called “Mokumoku-kai lunch meeting” to support 
management industries and minutes for investment 
each other and help the development of beginners. For 
information exchange salons across departments. In 
example, we invited employees who actually use Python for 
addition, the Investment Development Group publishes 
programming in daily operations to give lecturers and held 
latest research outcomes, and the Macro Research Group 
an explanatory meeting on the “Program for Obtaining 
and other groups in charge of asset management express 
Securities Reports from EDINET.” Participants commented 
their outlook and review of the economy and the market. 
that they understood how to use Python in a concrete way, 
Since we receive replies not only from the department to 
which led to an aspiration to learn about programming.
which we belong, but also from various departments, 
discussions may begin on the spot, and the sender may 
Q4   Could you tell us about your future aspirations and any 
also be able to obtain new knowledge from the feedback. 
further progress you may wish to make?
Meanwhile, we set up Python Study Group where we 
A4   I think it will be interesting if we are able to set up a bottom-
review and confirm the progress reading books common to 
up project that will create new ideas and initiatives.
all members of the Group.
Q2   Could you describe more on internal SNS?
A2   The organization of the Investment Management Division is 
divided by asset class, and there are many experienced 
people who have accumulated knowledge of each asset for 
many years. While each market is closely linked, there may 
be a tendency for people to bias their views toward the 
assets they are in charge of. Therefore, referring to the 
views of the persons in charge of other assets through our 
internal social media helps us learn more sophisticated 
investment management. There are cases that were actually 
evaluated by third-party evaluation organizations. 
Occasionally, some members who used to work for the 
market divisions of securities companies provide 
opportunities for others to learn speculations of brokers that 
affect the market, as well as the story of the supply and 
Sustainability Report 2020 34
010_0378979832011.indd   34 2020/11/27   11:47:05
Our ESG Initiatives
Corporate Governance
Highly Independent Board of Directors
In order to ensure our independence as an asset management company and to conduct effective corporate governance, we have 
four out of the eight Directors who are from other organizations than our shareholders. The Company invites three Outside 
Directors with abundant knowledge in domestic and overseas corporate management and financial and economic fields to 
supervise the status of management execution and conflicts of interest with shareholders from an independent standpoint and 
give advice to our management team based on their respective experience and expertise. In addition, in order to verify whether 
the functions expected of the Board of Directors are properly performed and to improve them, the effectiveness of the Board of 
Directors is evaluated every fiscal year through a questionnaire survey of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members.
Outside Directors
Chikatomo Hodo Date of appointment June 27, 2016 Attendance rate at the Board of Directors meetings 100% (15/15)
Career  September 2005 Representative Director, Accenture Japan Ltd. Major  Director, Mynavi Corporation
Summary April 2006   Representative Director and President, Accenture Japan Ltd. Concurrent  Director, Konica Minolta, Inc.
Positions
September 2015 Director and Chairman, Accenture Japan Ltd. Director of the Board,  
September 2017  Director and Senior Corporate Advisor, Accenture Japan Ltd. Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation
July 2018  Senior Corporate Advisor, Accenture Japan Ltd. (incumbent)
Noriyuki Yanagawa Date of appointment June 27, 2016 Attendance rate at the Board of Directors meetings 100% (15/15)
Career  April 1993  Full-time lecturer, Faculty of Economics, Keio University Major  Advisor, SOMPO Holdings, Inc.
Summary April 1996  Assistant Professor, Graduate School of Economics, the University of Tokyo Concurrent  Director, Yamaguchi Financial Group, Inc.
Positions
April 2007  Associate Professor, Graduate School of Economics, the University of Tokyo
December 2011 Professor, Graduate School of Economics, the University of Tokyo (incumbent)
Jun Arai Date of appointment April 1, 2019 Attendance rate at the Board of Directors meetings 100% (15/15)
Career  August 2008  Representative Director, Showa Shell Sekiyu K.K. Major  Audit & Supervisory Board Member,  
Summary November 2008 Representative Director and President, Showa Shell Sekiyu K.K. Concurrent  Kyowa Kirin Co., Ltd.
March 2013  Representative Director and Group Chief Operating Officer, Showa Shell Sekiyu K.K. Positions Corporate Auditor, Ryohin Keikaku Co., Ltd.
March 2014  Representative Director and President, Showa Yokkaichi Sekiyu Co., Ltd.
April 2016  Representative Director and President, Showa Yokkaichi Sekiyu Co., Ltd. and 
Director, Daiwa SB Investments Ltd.
Establishment of Internal Committees of Board of Directors
We have established the Nominating Committee of Directors, the Nominating Committee of Executive Officers and 
the Responsible Investment Committee as internal committees of the Board of Directors. Each of these committees 
is composed of Outside Directors, and plays an important role in ensuring appropriate business execution and fair 
internal personnel management.
Committee Name Members Purpose
The purpose is to deliberate matters concerning personnel 
Nominating Committee of  Chairman of the Board, President and 
affairs, remuneration, and bonuses of Directors and to advise the 
Directors Director, and Outside Directors
Board of Directors.
The purpose is to deliberate matters concerning the personnel 
Nominating Committee of 
Directors (including Outside Directors) affairs, remuneration, and bonuses of Executive Officers and to 
Executive Officers
advise the Board of Directors.
The purpose of this committee is not only to review that the 
An Outside Director who meets the 
Company properly fulfills its fiduciary duties including initiatives 
independence standards set forth 
Responsible Investment  for responsible investment and that there is proper management 
separately, the Responsible Investment 
Committee of the potential for conflicts of interest, but also to make 
Officer, and the officer in charge of the 
recommendations to the Board of Directors for further 
Compliance Department
improvements.
35 Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset Management
010_0378979832011.indd   35 2020/11/27   11:47:05
Interview with Outside Director
I hope that asset 
managers will play an 
active role in leading the 
changes in society.
Noriyuki Yanagawa
Professor, Graduate School, the University of Tokyo
center to the suburbs, enjoying nature not found in the city center, 
Speed of change in society accelerated 
or enjoying time with their families. These trends are not limited to 
with digitization as a driving force.
where to live, but will lead to changes in people’s values, 
From now onward, various changes in society will occur more  eventually sustainability is expected to become a major trend for 
rapidly than ever before, triggered by the COVID-19 crisis. As a  society as a whole.
result of the spread of infections, a kind of social experiment was 
conducted in the face of a situation where we were effectively 
Asset managers are expected to play an active 
forced to conduct remote work and online classes. As a result, 
role in leading the changes in society.
although there were various inconveniences, it was clear that 
remote work and other measures that had been deemed difficult  What roles and responsibilities should asset managers fulfill in the 
could be done to some extent. Given this experience, digitization  future? We live in an age when major changes that would have 
will become the driving force that will further accelerate changes  taken five to ten years in the past can occur just in a half year. For 
in society. one thing, it is essential for asset managers to detect these 
changes, make decisions quickly after thoroughly analyzing their 
effects, and invest appropriately where they should. Furthermore, 
Sustainability becomes a major social 
I would look forward to taking actions to go a step further, rather 
trend due to changes in people’s values
than simply investing in areas with growth potential. In other 
In the corporate society, information gathering will be easier by  words, future asset management companies will need to 
digitization, and the change of the industrial structure will be  understand changes in the values of investors and society as a 
advanced by making effective use of it. In recent years, the rise of  whole, envision their own image of the future society firmly, and in 
platformers represented by GAFA has been remarkable. It is  some cases lead society as a whole toward realization of the 
expected that not only the barriers between banks and security  image.
firms but also the barriers between traditional financial and non- Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset Management has stated “For Your 
financial industries will rapidly disappear in the financial industry. In  Better Quality of Life” in its management philosophy, which is 
people’s lives, it will become more convenient to live with no need  precisely required in the present era of change. In the field of 
to use seals and documents in administrative procedures. In  sustainability as well, I would like the Company to move forward 
addition, in the long run, if people do not have to commute to  toward a major vision while firmly establishing its footing.
work every day, more and more people will move from the city 
Sustainability Report 2020 36
010_0378979832011.indd   36 2020/11/27   11:47:05
Our ESG Initiatives
Creating a Vibrant Workplace
We aim to be “the Best Asset Management Firm for Your Better Quality of Life.” To this end, we are implementing 
Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) initiatives with the goal of creating a workplace where each and every employee can 
maximize his or her abilities and work enthusiastically.
We regard D&I as one of the most important management issues and established The Diversity Promotion 
Committee, chaired by CEO, as the promotion body.
We create a flexible 
working environment 
that allows all employees 
to reach their potential.
Takashi Kawahori
Director and Senior Managing Executive Officer
In charge of human resources
We promote D&I initiatives in four areas: women’s active  generated through interaction and mutual respect of diversified 
participation, working styles, health management, and diverse  people. In order to encourage people with different 
human resource activities. characteristics, backgrounds, and lifestyles to mutually respect 
We engage in D&I simply because we believe that promoting  each other, we are working to foster awareness through training 
D&I leads to efficient and sound organizational growth. One of our  and other means while we are developing and supporting various 
codes of conduct is “Teamwork” with which we hope that our  measures to ensure flexible working styles and enable employees 
ideas will be stimulated and energy and innovation will be  to practice enjoyable health management.
KPIs on diversity and inclusion
Mission, Vision and Values
Towards The Best Asset Management Firm For Your Better Quality of Life.
Fiscal 2019 (Actual) Fiscal 2022 (Target)
Percentage of female managers 10.5% *1 15.0%
Chairperson of Diversity Promotion Committee: CEO Percentage of paid holidays taken 68.1% 75.0%
Overtime hours (average) 22.8 hours/month 20.0 hours/month
Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) Promotion Liaison Committee Percentage of employees with disabilities 1.9% 2.3%
Percentage of male employees taking childcare leave 30% *2 100%
Women’s Advancement Subcommittee Health Management Subcommittee
Smoking rate 16.2% *3 12.0%
Working Style Subcommittee Diverse Human Resources Subcommittee
*1: As of April 1, 2020  *2: Reference value  *3: Result from fiscal 2018
37 Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset Management
010_0378979832011.indd   37 2020/11/27   11:47:06
Support for women’s advancement
We are working to increase the percentage of women in employ- training program where all employees can learn unconscious bias 
ees, managers, and investment professionals through recruitment  so that each and every employee can be aware of it and correct it.
and changes in job types. In addition to dispatching female employ- In addition, we are sponsoring a “Women’s Lunch Community” in 
ees to external training organizations, we also conduct training for  which female employees can frankly share information while having 
managers who have female subordinates to foster the awareness  lunch on the themes of balancing work with childcare and nursing 
of women’s active participation not only among female employees  care as well as career development. This is an opportunity to listen 
but also throughout the company. In particular, we believe that un- to advice from senior employees and colleagues on balancing work 
conscious bias is a hindrance to diversity. Therefore, we provide  with childcare and housekeeping and to consult on working styles.
Flexible working styles
We have established systems that enable a variety of working 
styles so that diverse human resources can thrive. We have a 
flextime system as well as a leave system for childcare, nursing 
care and medical care support, and volunteer leave and long-term 
leave. In addition, as initiatives for human resource development and 
In addition, in principle, we provide notebook PCs and mobile  operational reform, we introduced one-on-one meetings while we 
phones to all employees to enable remote work. In the spring of  held workshops and town hall meetings to instill the code of 
2020, remote work was implemented in many departments  conduct into our people. We are also expanding our efforts to 
except for some inevitable on-site operations. In order to increase  support employees’ autonomous career development by 
the flexibility of working styles in this way, we are simultaneously  measures such as our internal job posting system.
replacing various manual work by IT, improving the capabilities of  In recognition of the flexible working styles, we became the first 
the systems themselves, making our operations paperless, and  asset management company to win 3.5 stars in the Nikkei’s 
reviewing our operation flows. “Smart Work Management Survey 2019.”
Health and Productivity Management
As part of our health and productivity management, we have a 
system called “Health Point Program” for employees to enjoy 
while promoting their health. This program offers health points 
based on how many steps you walk, how many times you read 
health columns, when you take health checkups, how you take 
leaves, and other criteria, and helps employees to enjoy and 
improve their health. We also hold walking events in which all  system in which any employee can regularly have a counseling by 
employees participate. During the team match, executives  professionals in our office. With regard to harassment, under a 
became leaders of each team, speaking out and competing with  strong policy that we allow absolutely no harassment, we provide 
each other, which helped to stimulate communication. In addition,  all layers of executives, managers, and general employees with 
we are conducting walking and health seminars on food and  training sessions depending on the level.
exercise to increase interest in health. These efforts have been evaluated highly and we were certified 
In the area of mental health, we have established a consultation  as one of the 2020 Certified Health & Productivity Management 
desk to respond to various concerns of our employees and also a  Outstanding Organizations (large enterprise category)*.
*  A 2020 Certified Health & Productivity Management Outstanding Organization is a corporation recognized for excellence in health management under the 2020 
Certified Health & Productivity Management Outstanding Organizations Recognition Program promoted by Nippon Kenko Kaigi as well as initiatives suited to local 
health issues.
Elsewhere, we have established a system in which LGBTs or sexual minorities can regard their partners as equivalent to their families and 
spouses.
In addition, to create a work environment that is free from discrimination and foster diverse values, we have positioned LGBT and human 
rights trainings as mandatory, and are expanding them throughout the company.
Sustainability Report 2020 38
010_0378979832011.indd   38 2020/11/27   11:47:06
Our ESG Initiatives
Social Contribution Activities
Education and Enlightenment for 
Promoting Asset Building
In Japan, where the declining birthrate and aging population are progressing with the speed rarely seen in the rest 
of world, it goes without saying that efforts toward asset building are extremely important for every citizen. 
Accordingly, we provide workshops and seminars for individual investors to acquire the correct knowledge of asset 
building, and for elementary, junior high and high school students with educational programs to be interested in 
finance and economy as a first step. We hope that these activities will help improve Quality of Life of as many 
people as possible in the age of “100-year life.”
Okashita Juku, a study group for 
regional financial institutions
Okashita Juku is a study session organized by Mr. Kazumi 
Okashita, our Advisor. The purpose of the session is to learn 
with distributors about the ideal ways of investment trust sales 
for the true sense of asset building of customers, rather than 
just selling investment products. Since its launch in 2015, 
approximately 16,700 employees from 50 regional financial 
institutions have participated as of the end of March 2020.
Nikkei Quality of Life Seminar
In cooperation with Nikkei Business Publications, Inc., 
seminars were held twice for working women in their 20s to 
40s to learn about career development as well as asset 
building essential for the age of “the 100-year life.” All seats 
were filled at each session, highlighting the high level of 
interest in asset building.
Easy-to-Understand Videos
Educational contents for individual investors
Asset Management Explained in Animation
Diversified Investment Edition
We provide at the website a variety of contents that individual investors who are 
about to begin asset building in the future or have just begun. They can learn the 
basics of asset building, including videos on basic knowledge such as diversified 
investment and installment-type investment, and animation on the structure of 
investment trusts.
39 Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset Management
010_0378979832011.indd   39 2020/11/27   11:47:07
Activities to Educate Future Generations
In order to maintain this prosperous society in the future, we conduct education-related activities for pupils and 
students who will lead the next generation.
Economica,  Support for higher education of children 
a financial and economic card game orphaned by traffic accidents
Economica is a card game, with which players can enjoy playing  We held seminars to learn about autonomous driving technology, 
and become familiar with the economy. We hold tournaments of  which is expected to reduce traffic accidents and secure 
Economica around the country. We believe that familiarity with  transportation means in depopulated areas. We also donated to 
financial economics through playing will help to broaden children’s  KOTSUIJI IKUEIKAI Association, which provides support for 
horizons and cultivate power to live in the future. children orphaned by traffic accidents to receive higher education.
Financial and economic education seminars Classes offered at neighborhood junior high schools
We hold financial and economic educational seminars in  Our Chief Economist, Mr. Takumori, offered classes on how to 
collaboration with SMBC Group companies. Our employees visit  think of trends in the business environment using familiar events. 
high schools and universities to give lectures on financial  During the classes, we conducted a mock survey, in which 
knowledge and investment. Each time participating students  students experienced how to generate economic indicators 
asked many questions such as the background investors buy  related to consumption.
government bonds despite the negative yield and various 
questions on equity investment. Lectures provide opportunities for 
students to get interested in asset management.
Sustainability Report 2020 40
010_0378979832011.indd   40 2020/11/27   11:47:07
Our ESG Initiatives
Social Contribution Activities
Activities Contributing to 
Culture and Communities
In order to realize a society where people can nurture a rich spirit and live with peace of mind, we are, as a member 
of society, making efforts that will lead to the succession of culture and the revitalization of communities.
Support for protection of cultural heritage Volunteering in MINATO City Half Marathon
We donate a part of our management fee of “The Tomioka Silk  We participated as volunteers in the marathon event sponsored 
Mill and Related Industrial Heritage Support Fund,” investment  by Minato-ku, Tokyo, where our head office is located, to support 
trust we manage, to support protection of the “Tomioka Silk Mill  runners by  providing drinking water and other means. It was a 
and Related Sites” so that valuable culture can be handed down  wonderful experience for the participating employees to have 
to future generations. been able to support people who engage in sports, including 
those with disabilities, together with local residents.
Environmental Initiatives
As a corporate citizen, we are engaged in volunteer activities such as clothing reuse, as well as in environmentally 
conscious business operations. To reduce office paper use, we distributed laptop PCs to all employees and 
implemented a policy of paperless in-house meetings in 2019. On the occasion of our head office relocation in July 
2020, we aimed to realize a recycling-oriented office.
Participation in clothing reuse project
We collected reusable clothing from employees that would have previously 
been discarded as garbage and donated it to the NPO “Yofuku Post.” The 
clothes collected are sold in the secondhand clothing markets overseas, and 
reach those who use them again as clothing. We donate proceeds earned 
depending on the weight of the garments collected to organizations working 
to improve the society.
Cooperation: NPO Yofukupost Network Meeting
41 Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset Management
010_0378979832011.indd   41 2020/11/27   11:47:08
Initiatives related to new office relocation project
We relocated our head office to Toranomon Hills Business Tower  cabinets, and actively used products made from recycled 
(Minato-ku, Tokyo) in July 2020. In selecting a building for  materials. At the same time, we sought to reduce the 
relocation, we placed great value on high energy efficiency of the  environmental impact of the entire relocation project by reusing 
Toranomon Hills Business Tower. In the new office, we promoted  and recycling fixtures and equipment used in the former offices.
paperless operations by reducing storage space such as 
 T he energy efficiency of the new office is expected to improve by 46%* compared to standard office buildings due to direct sunlight 
shields by eaves, district heating and cooling systems, and system lighting with human-detecting sensors.
      * Evaluation of Toranomon Hills Business Tower (standard floor office) based on the Building-Housing Energy-efficiency Labeling System (BELS).
 F or office furniture, products made from thinned domestic broadleaf trees with excellent design have been adopted.
 A  pproximately 95% of tile carpets and other flooring materials at the new office were made from products using recycled materials. 
Approximately 60% of tile carpets used at the former office were reused as recycled carpet raw materials.
Eaves of building exterior walls that block direct sunlight Office furniture using thinned broadleaf trees Recycling process of used carpets
 T o promote further paperless operations, we reduced storage space by approximately 70% compared to the former office, while we 
installed displays and Wi-Fi network in meeting spaces and provided laptop PCs and iPhone with each employee.
 I n the cafeteria in the office, paper or biodegradable plastics straws are used instead of the plastic made.
 A pproximately 1,600 books that were no longer needed were brought to the used book purchasing company on the occasion of the 
relocation. The proceeds from selling the books is donated to organizations working on social contribution activities.
Well-equipped online conferencing facilities Straws made from biodegradable plastics Donation of proceeds from selling about 1,600 used books
Sustainability Report 2020 42
010_0378979832011.indd   42 2020/11/27   11:47:09
Our ESG Initiatives
Sustainability-Related Products/Funds
We provide relevant products to realize a sustainable society through our asset management business. We will 
continue to enhance our product lineup to meet the diverse needs of our domestic and overseas customers.
Japan Equity Engagement Strategy
The following is an interview with Mr. Ichikuwata, the General Manager of the Engagement Investment Department about the Japan Equity 
Engagement Strategy, which was launched in March 2016.
Engagement is the source of return
In traditional equity investment, the sources of return are in  discount relative to the absolute value of the company.
investment styles such as growth and value, and engagement is a 
complementary element. In contrast, this investment strategy is  Launch of 
March 2016
characterized in large part by the fact that engagement itself is the  Investment
source of return. AUM 4.0 billion yen (as of the end of August 2020)
We invest in companies that are undervalued in the market  Investment  All listed Japanese equities
Universe
despite having strong business. This means that we try to 
Number of 
eliminate the inefficiencies that hinder the stock price of such  Approximately 15-25
Holdings
companies through engagement. In terms of analysis, we focus 
Absolute 10% to 15% annually over the 
not on short-term fluctuations in performance, but on the  Targeted  medium- to long-term (approximately five 
Return
strengths of the company itself, namely its business location,  years) (before excluding costs)
entry barriers, and competitive advantage, as well as the extent of  Benchmark N/A
Poor corporate governance is the biggest factor hindering rising stock prices
Inefficiencies that hinder the stock prices often exist in companies  in IR. Accordingly we encourage management team through 
with significant room for improvement in terms of corporate  engagement to improve the three elements of stock evaluation, 
governance. In other words, many companies are not sufficiently  namely, capital productivity, sustainability and growth potential, 
aware of corporate value. For example, there are some companies  while at the same time strengthening and improving the IR 
with high profit margins but room for improvement in asset  function, which is also a crucial element.
efficiency, or companies with high ROE but room for improvement 
Engagement is a dialogue that organizes the ideas of company executives and encourages them to change their consciousness
Through our engagement so far, there have been many changes 
in the companies in which we invest. For example, a company 
that had not actively worked to improve ROE has made progress 
in organizing their thoughts through dialogue. As a result, they 
have begun to focus on improving ROE through B/S management 
for their entire business efficiency. There is an example of another 
company whose top management awareness has changed when 
a dramatic improvement in IR led to a significant rise in the stock 
price. Although the company had strong businesses, the IR 
explanation had been centered around short-term events, and the 
evaluation from the stock market was not high. Accordingly, we 
organized their competitive advantages, management vision, and 
growth strategies, and at the same time held repeated discussions 
on the importance of IR and the enhancement of corporate value. 
As a result, the focus of IR has shifted to a competitive advantage  Yuichi Ichikuwata
and growth story with a medium- to long-term perspective, and 
General Manager, Engagement Investment Department
their reputation in the stock market has improved dramatically. 
These changes in awareness has led to further improvements 
since then. In addition, we engage in dialogue and proposals that  plan, and ESG initiatives. Engagement is conducted in a way that 
will enhance corporate value and stock valuation over the  leads to clarification of the minds of top management and 
medium- to long-term, including encouraging the creation of a  prompts their awareness of continuous enhancement of corporate 
long-term vision, the content of a medium-term management  value.
43 Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset Management
010_0378979832011.indd   43 2020/11/27   11:47:10
Global Impact Fund (nicknamed “Better World”)
Inception Date August 26, 2016 AUM 26.4 billion yen (as of the end of August 2020) Trust Fee 1.98% annually (tax included)
Fund Purpose The Fund invests primarily in global equities through investments in mother funds, with the objective of achieving 
medium- to long-term growth in trust assets.
Characteristics  1. Through investments in mother funds, we aim to grow assets under management by substantially investing in 
of the Fund companies with innovative technologies and business models that could solve social issues, mainly from 
among global stocks.
2. The fund is substantially managed by Wellington Management Company LLP.
3. Settlement is made on the 10th of every February and August (the following business day in the case of a 
holiday), and in principle, we aim for distribution.
Sumitomo Mitsui Japan Stock ESG Fund
Inception Date February 9, 2018 AUM 0.9 billion yen (as of the end of August 2020) Trust Fee 1.188% annually (tax included)
Fund Purpose The Fund invests in stocks listed on Japanese exchanges through investments in the Japan Equity ESG Mother 
Fund with the objective of achieving medium- to long-term growth in trust assets.
Characteristics  1. We primarily invest in Japanese equities in the market where ESG investment is expected to expand. ESG 
of the Fund investment is an investment method that considers companies’ initiatives toward environmental, social, and 
governance issues when making investment decisions.
2. Experienced corporate research analysts evaluate companies’ ESG initiatives (ESG evaluation) and select 
companies that are expected to increase corporate value.
Global SDGs Equity Fund
Inception Date January 28, 2019 AUM 14.3 billion yen (as of the end of August 2020) Trust Fee 1.694% annually (tax included)
Fund Purpose The Fund invests in stocks listed on global exchanges through investment in Global SDGs Equity Mother Fund 
with the objective of achieving medium- to long-term growth in trust assets.
Characteristics  1. We invest in shares of companies that are expected to contribute to SDGs.
of the Fund 2. The fund is substantially managed by Robeco Switzerland AG, utilizing the method of ESG investment, which 
is a global trend in asset management.
3. In principle, we do not hedge against the yen for real assets denominated in foreign currencies.
Global New Era Equity Fund (nicknamed “World Change”)
Inception Date July 31, 2020 AUM 1.6 billion yen (as of the end of August 2020) Trust Fee 1.584% annually (tax included)
Fund Purpose The Fund invests in stocks listed on global exchanges through investing in mother funds with the objective of 
achieving medium- to long-term growth in trust assets.
Characteristics  1. We carefully select and invest in stocks of companies around the world that have a high competitive 
of the Fund advantage in fields where growth is expected due to structural changes.
2. We select investee companies by analyzing and evaluating corporate growth outlook and the extent of 
discount of stock prices based on investment themes such as changes in lifestyles, corporate strategy and 
medical and health care.
3. In principle, we do not hedge against the yen for real assets denominated in foreign currencies.
Sustainability Report 2020 44
010_0378979832011.indd   44 2020/11/27   11:47:10
Disclaimer
Important Precautions
Notes on Investment Advisory Contracts and Discretionary Investment Management Contracts (Risks, Expenses)
Risks relating to investment advisory contracts and discretionary investment management contracts
Financial products and financial derivatives products invested in under discretionary investment management contracts or those products 
advised to invest in under investment advisory contracts may incur losses resulting from changes in the market indices of those products 
interest rates, foreign exchange rates or other indicators in financial instruments markets.
Factors subject to change include: risk of fluctuations in prices of marketable securities, etc.; credit risk of issuers, etc.; risk of fluctuations 
in interest rates and financial markets; liquidity risk, etc., such as the inability to execute a transaction under conditions of sufficient liquidity 
(and with regards to investments denominated in a foreign currency, foreign exchange rate risk, etc.). Accordingly, the client’s investment 
principal amount is not guaranteed. A decline in the value of the financial instruments, etc. could cause a loss of principal.
In cases where margin transactions and/or futures and options transactions (hereunder “derivatives transactions”) are utilized, the amount 
of derivatives transactions may exceed the amount of customer margin and other guarantee money (hereunder “customer margin, etc.”), 
and as a result of fluctuations in the level of interest rates and currency values and other financial product market indicators losses 
exceeding the customer margin, etc., may arise.
The amount of customer margin, etc. and the method of its calculation etc. differ according to a wide variety of transaction circumstances 
and transaction counterparties, therefore it is not possible to show the ratio of the amount of derivative transactions to the amount of 
customer margin, etc.
Fees and commissions on investment advisory contracts and discretionary investment management contracts
Investment Management fee
Management fee under an investment advisory contract or a discretionary investment management contract is borne as fixed compensation 
by multiplying the contract asset amount (the base amount used to calculate investment advisory fees) by a Company’s official 
predetermined rate.*
Under certain contracts, performance fee is applicable.
* A predetermined rate cannot be stated specifically beforehand, as it varies depending on the specifics of contracts. Details of the contract asset amount and 
calculation method will be specified separately in consultation with customers.
Other fees, etc.
In addition to the above investment advisory fees, the following fees and commissions, etc., will be incurred.
(1)  Trading commissions for financial products borne from the assets under management
(2)  When investing in investment trusts in accordance with discretionary investment contracts, reserves for trust assets and the trust fees 
and various trust administrative expenses*, etc. are deducted from the trust assets.
(3)  When investing in foreign domiciled investment trusts in accordance with discretionary investment contracts, the followings are deducted 
from trust assets: management fees and incentive fees to foreign investment managers; management and custodial fees to investment 
trust management and custodial companies; trustee fees; audit fees; and other investment trust management expenses, etc.
As the actual amount of these commissions, etc. are determined based on the specifics of transactions, etc., and are recognized as 
expenses whenever incurred or billed, or fluctuates depending on the status of investments, etc., the maximum amount and calculation 
method of these commissions, etc. cannot be stated herein.
The total amount of the above investment advisory fees and other fees to be borne by customers, the maximum amount thereof, and the 
calculation method, etc. cannot be stated in advance for the same reasons described above.
* In the case discretionary accounts invest in investment trusts various expenses include the audit expenses of investment trusts.
Note:  The above risks, fees, etc. differ depending on the specifics of contracts and the status of investments, etc. Therefore, before entering into a contract, please 
confirm written documents prior to concluding the contract.
For institutional accounts clients
  This material has been prepared for the purpose of introducing information on some of the products that we can provide, and it is not a 
disclosure document in accordance with the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act of Japan.
  Returns and risks presented herein are calculated based on historical data and our current economic outlook, among other factors, and 
are not guarantees of future returns or risks.
  The rate of return data, etc. other than actual fund, including simulation, described herein does not reflect the fees, transaction fees, 
rebalancing costs, etc. required for actual management.
  The investment products and methods described herein are not guarantees of future investment results or principal, and there is a 
possibility that losses will be incurred due to investments. All investment results, including losses, are attributed to the customer.
  The market outlook and other statements contained in this document are views as of the time of preparation of this document and are not 
guarantees of future trends or results. They may not be reflected in our investment policies or may change without notice in the future.
  Third-party evaluations described herein are based on an analysis of past performance over a certain period of time, and are not 
guarantees of future performance, etc.
  All intellectual property rights and other rights of the benchmark indexes described herein belong to its issuer and licensor.
  This document has been prepared based on information that we believe to be reliable, but we assume no responsibility for its integrity or 
accuracy.
  All rights to the contents of this document are reserved by us. It is strictly prohibited to use this document for investment purposes and to 
duplicate or disclose it to third parties without approval.
45 Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset Management
010_0378979832011.indd   45 2020/11/27   11:47:10
Notes on Investment Trusts (Risks, Expenses)
Risks related to investment trusts
The price  of investment trusts fluctuates, affected by  price movements of securities included in the investment trusts (in addition foreign 
currency denominated assets are subject to currency exchange rate fluctuations ). Losses may occur when the price declines and this 
may result in a loss of principal.
 Profits and losses generated by the fund as a result of investments are shared by all the beneficiaries. Unlike bank deposits, the 
principal of investment trusts is not guaranteed and a particular investment performance is not guaranteed.
Expenses related to investment trusts
Customers need to pay the following expenses related to investment.
 Expenses paid directly  Transaction fee: Up to 3.85% (tax included)
    Redemption (cancellation) fee: Up to 1.10% (including tax)
    Redemption fee to be reserved as part of trust asset: Up to 1.25%
 Expenses incurred indirectly during the holding period of investment trusts
    Trust fees: Up to 3.905% annually (tax included)
 Other expenses
The following fees and commissions are also charged from the trust assets: audit fees; brokerage commissions and other charges on 
traded securities, derivative transactions(including amounts for consumption and other taxes), etc; and charges, etc., for the custody, etc., 
of assets overseas. In addition, some investment trusts incur success fees and those success fees are paid out of the assets of the 
investment trust. When the fund invests into other funds, asset management fees and other expenses of those funds are charged indirectly.
As the amount of such charges depends on the details of particular transactions, etc., SMDAM cannot provide an upper limit or method 
of calculation for them.
*  Further, as the total amount of fees, etc. borne by the customer, their calculation methods and maximum amounts differ according to the customer’s holding period 
we are unable to provide more specific information.
Note:  The above risks and charges pertain to investment trusts in general. As regards the Subscription fee and other fees, the rates listed above are the highest 
applicable among all investment trusts managed by SMDAM Furthermore, as the risks and charges entailed by an investment trust vary from one trust to another, 
before making an investment the client is requested to read carefully all relevant items within the investment trust summary prospectus and the other documents 
provided prior to signing a contract.
  Investment Trusts are unlike deposit/saving or insurance contract, not protected by Deposit Insurance/Saving Insurance/Policyholders Protection Corporation. 
Also, in case of purchase at Registered Financial Institutions, it will not be covered by Investor Protection Fund.
  Please note that no redemption/cancellation is accepted for investment trusts if it falls on the closed period of investment trusts or domestic and overseas public 
holidays.
As of May 29, 2020
To the distribution companies and individual investors of investment trusts
  This document has been prepared by Sumitomo Mitsui DS Asset Management for the purpose of providing information. It is not intended 
to recommend or solicit the purchase or sale of certain investment trusts, life insurance, stocks, bonds, etc.
  The Company is not responsible for the results of the investment actions taken based on this document.
  The content of this document is current as of the date of preparation and subject to change without prior notice in the future.
  When this document includes data and analyses of market conditions, they are historical results and future expectations, and do not 
guarantee future market conditions, etc.
  This document has been prepared based on information that we judged reliable, but the accuracy and completeness thereof cannot be 
guaranteed.
  Any and all intellectual property rights or other rights of indexes, statistical materials, etc. that might be included herein belong to the 
issuer and the licensor.
  If there are any photographs in this document, the photograph is just an image and may not be related to the text.
  Any evaluation by evaluation organizations described herein are based on an analysis of past performance over a certain period of time, 
and does not represent any guarantee of future performance, etc.
Morningstar rating information is based on historical performance and is not a guarantee of future performance. The overall performance 
of funds is assessed on a risk-adjusted basis every month. Though the evaluations were made using data deemed reliable by Morningstar, 
they do not guarantee the accuracy or completeness of such information. All rights to intellectual property, including copyrights, are 
reserved by Morningstar Japan K.K. and Morningstar, Inc. Reproduction, reprinting, or quoting without permission is prohibited. The 
ratings described in this document are based on March 31 of each year. Morningstar Rating displays, in five stars, the rank of the fund’s 
risk-adjusted performance over the past three, five, and ten years relative to funds within the relevant category.
Sustainability Report 2020 46
010_0378979832011.indd   46 2020/11/27   11:47:10
Registration Number: The Director of Kanto Local Finance Bureau (KINSHO) No.399
Member of Japan Investment Advisers Association and the Investment Trusts Association, Japan 
and Type II Financial Instruments Firms Association.
As of November 2, 2020
010_0378979832011.indd   47 2020/11/27   11:47:10