
Sustainable 
investing: 
fast-forwarding its evolution 
February 2020
home.kpmg/sustainableinvesting
Acknowledgments
This report is a joint effort, involving KPMG International, CREATE-Research, AIMA 
and CAIA.
It examines in detail sustainable investing and its impact on the alternative  In the middle 
investment industry. Focusing on hedge funds and institutional investors, together 
of difficulty lies 
with best practice from the asset management sector, the report investigates how 
sustainable investing is gathering momentum across the investment universe. opportunity. 
1
Our foremost thanks go to some 135 institutional investors, hedge fund managers, 
long only managers and pension consultants in 13 countries in all the key regions,  Albert Einstein
who participated in the research on which this report is based.
We would also like to offer our special thanks to those CEOs, CIOs and board 
directors who participated in our face-to-face structured interviews. Their insights  Executive 
and foresights helped to produce a clear vision of the future of their industry. summary
Finally, special thanks also go to the members of the project team, editorial 
board and other colleagues around the world who helped us in carrying 
out this research: in particular Dmitriy Ioselevich from 17 Communications, 
Christina Farrace from KPMG International, Dylan Watson and Sarah Wium from 
KPMG in the Cayman Islands, Tom Kehoe and Jack Inglis from AIMA, William J. Kelly 
from CAIA Association, and Lisa Terrett, Anna Godden and Dr. Elizabeth Goodhew at 
CREATE-Research.
Anthony Cowell  Amin Rajan  
Partner  CEO  
Head of Asset Management   CREATE-Research  2
KPMG in the Cayman Islands
The rise of ESG 
in the hedge 
fund industry
Editorial board
Darina Barrett (KPMG in Ireland) Bonn Liu (KPMG in Hong Kong SAR)
Ravi Beegun (KPMG in Luxembourg) Troy Mortimer (KPMG in the UK)
Ben Blair (KPMG in the Cayman Islands) Tomas Otterström (KPMG in Finland and Sweden)
Tom Brown (KPMG in the UK) Rebecca Palmer (KPMG in the Cayman Islands)
Jack Inglis (AIMA) Riikka Sievänen (KPMG in Finland)
Dmitriy Ioselevich (17 Communications) Jim Suglia (KPMG in the US) 3
Tom Kehoe (AIMA) Andrew Weir (KPMG in China)
William J. Kelly (CAIA Association) Greg Williams (KPMG in the US)
The rise of 
sustainable 
investing
i Sustainable investing: fast-forwarding its evolution
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
Geographical coverage of research 
participants
Australia  Luxembourg 
Belgium Netherlands
Canada Sweden 
Denmark Switzerland
1
France UK
Germany US
Hong Kong (SAR), China 
Executive 
summary
2
The rise of ESG 
in the hedge 
fund industry
3
The rise of  
sustainable 
investing
ii Sustainable investing: fast forwarding its evolution                             
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
1 2
1
Executive 
summary
The rise of ESG in the hedge 
fund industry  19
How are managers advancing? 
1. Key drivers  21 2
2. Key constraints  27
3. Emerging best practice   30
3
The rise of ESG 
in the hedge 
Executive summary  1 fund industry
Introduction and aims
Report highlights  3
Headline findings   4
Part I. Hedge funds: a progress report
1. Institutional investors are driving the 
ESG agenda  4
2. ESG investing faces various obstacles  6
3
3. Perfection cannot be the enemy of progress  8
4. Best practice can shift the needle  10
Part II. Early adopters: their story The rise of sustainable investing  36
1. Sustainable investing is about creating  What lessons can be learned from early adopters?  The rise of  
businesses of enduring value  13 sustainable 
1. Progress along the Spectrum of Capital  38 investing
2. Capital markets are slow to price 
in sustainability risks  15 2. Factors slowing progress  43
3. Best practice is emerging  16 3. Developing best practice  48
iii Sustainable investing: fast-forwarding its evolution
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
Executive summary
1
Introduction and aims
11
EExxeeccuuttiivvee  
ssuummmmaarryy
2
The rise of ESG 
in the hedge 
fund industry
3
The rise of  
sustainable 
investing
1 Sustainable investing: fast-forwarding its evolution
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
The EU set out its landmark legislative  This research report highlights the 
plans to deliver carbon neutrality by  lessons learned so that others can 
2050: yet another defining moment  benefit from them. In the process, it 
Globalization has 
when one of the three key global regions  explores three issues. 
became the first to make such a bold legal  been the engine 
—  What is the current state of progress 
commitment. 
in implementing sustainable  of global growth. 
Before then, in the last decade, various  investing?
But it has, as a side 
governments worldwide had enacted 
—  Why is the pace of progress being 
over 500 new measures to promote  effect, inflicted much 
held back by various barriers? 
environmental, social and governance 
damage on certain 
issues (ESG).  —  How are these barriers being tackled 
on the ground by evolving best  communities and their 
Given the magnitude of the task, various  11
practice? 
players are involved: governments,  environment. 
regulators, capital markets, businesses  Focusing on North America, Europe 
and consumers; and they are aided  and, to a lesser extent, Asia Pacific,  A US pension plan
and abetted by green technologies and  our research method has targeted two 
business model innovations.  separate constituencies.  EExxeeccuuttiivvee  
ssuummmmaarryy
This survey report focuses on capital  —  Hedge fund managers and 
markets in general and sustainable  their institutional clients: via 
investing in particular.  two separate electronic surveys, 
bolstered by structured interviews. 
The latter can best be described as an 
This group accounted for 
evolutionary investment journey ABC: 
US$1.65 trillion of assets. 
(A) avoid harm and mitigate ESG risks; 
(B) benefit all stakeholders; and  —  Early adopters: via a structured 
(C) contribute solutions to societal  interview survey to hear the story 
problems. This definition embraces  from C-suite executives from 
approaches that variously come  a sample of large institutional 
under the generic headings of ESG,  investors, and global hedge fund 
2
responsible investing and impact  and long only asset managers, with 
investing. Throughout this report,  US$4.6 trillion of assets. 
sustainable investing is based on this 
The geographical coverage of 
definition, except where ESG has been 
respondents in the two constituencies 
more prevalent. Both are now widely 
is given in the table on page ii.  The rise of ESG 
viewed as smarter ways of investing. 
in the hedge 
Detailed results are given in Sections 2 
Institutional investors were the original  fund industry
and 3, respectively.
early advocates of sustainable investing, 
working initially with specialist asset  In the rest of this section, our headline 
managers. While some hedge funds  findings are organized under two 
were early adopters, the overall hedge  distinct parts, covering two distinct 
fund industry's advance has been  questions. 
incremental thus far. This is now 
—  How far have hedge fund managers 
changing as: their investors demand the 
progressed along the ESG journey?
adoption of ESG into the investment 
process; the industry recognizes the  —  What are the key lessons they and 
potential for alpha generation through  others can learn from the early 
3
ESG factors; and regulators force hands  adopters? 
through new rules.
The rise of  
sustainable 
investing
2 Sustainable investing: fast-forwarding its evolution
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
Report highlights
Hedge fund managers’ survey — Key data points
85% 55% 15% 63%
11
Institutional investors  ESG-oriented hedge  Hedge fund managers  Progress hampered by 
are the biggest drivers of  funds continue to target  have embedded ESG  lack of robust templates, 
demand for ESG-oriented  alpha returns, while  factors across their  consistent definitions and 
EExxeeccuuttiivvee  
hedge funds  managing fat-tailed  strategies reliable data
ssuummmmaarryy
far-off risks
Institutional investors’ survey — Key data points
44% 34% 75% 49%
2
ESG-oriented hedge  ESG is material to the  Too early to decide  Lack of consistent quality 
funds can deliver  financial performance of  whether sustainable  data is a challenge in the 
alpha and also manage  investee companies investing delivers double  adoption process
The rise of ESG 
fat-tailed far-off risks bottom-line outcomes
in the hedge 
fund industry
Early adopters’ narrative — Key messages
Markets are slow to  A new infrastructure  Active Ownership  Savvy 
price in sustainability  of skills, data and  2.0 is emerging as  implementation of 
risks due to their  technology is  the best practice  sustainability factors  3
excessive focus on  creating tailwinds for  model for effective  is vital for achieving 
short-termism sustainable investing engagement the expected 
outcomes
The rise of  
sustainable 
investing
3 Sustainable investing: fast-forwarding its evolution
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
Headline findings
Part I. Hedge funds: a progress report
1 Institutional investors are driving the ESG agenda
Having established a good track record  Thus, the traditional risk–return 
in promoting good governance among  equation is being rewritten to include 
their investee companies, hedge fund  ESG factors. This, in the belief that it is 
ESG is no longer a  11
managers are advancing in other areas  now becoming material to investment 
of ESG. Some are leading, others are  returns, as our societies tackle  nice-to-have; it’s a 
catching up. The advance is principally  environmental and social challenges 
must-have. 
driven by institutional investors and their  such as climate change, water scarcity 
consultants (Figure 1.1).  and loss of biodiversity.
A global alternative  EExxeeccuuttiivvee  
Until fairly recently, these investors have  For their part, hedge fund managers 
investment firm  ssuummmmaarryy
been mostly focused on uncorrelated  are well placed to respond on account 
absolute returns. They now want their  of their deep talent pool, technological 
investments to target double bottom- capabilities, nimble investment 
line benefits: do well financially by doing  strategies and activism track record. 
good socially and environmentally, while  Their short-selling expertise has always 
promoting high standards of governance  been valued in encouraging their 
and avoiding reputational risk. investee companies to up their ESG 
game. 
Specifically, they want their hedge 
fund managers to not only screen out  The transition is a double-edged sword, 
activities such as tobacco, defence  however. It offers opportunities by 
weapons, poor labor practices, and  promoting new ‘green’ industries, but it 
2
environmental pollution but they  is also fraught with fat-tailed far-off risks 
also want them to target positive  that are hard to model statistically, for 
environmental, social and governance  lack of historical precedence. 
outcomes, on top of the financial ones. 
The rise of ESG 
in the hedge 
Figure 1.1 Who is driving interest in ESG investing? fund industry
Institutional investors 85%
Institutional consultants 39%
Internal stakeholders 30%
HNW investors 19%
3
Politicians or regulators 13%
Industry trade bodies 6%
The rise of  
Source: KPMG–CAIA–AIMA–CREATE Survey 2020
sustainable 
investing
4 Sustainable investing: fast-forwarding its evolution
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
In our surveys, 35 percent of hedge  opportunities to generate alpha, while 
fund managers and 34 percent of  offering a more defensive portfolio 
their institutional clients support the  by looking beyond the blind spots as 
materiality argument — as shown in  markets are slow to price in ESG risks. 
Section 2. 
In response, hedge fund managers are 
Indeed, 44 percent of institutional  deploying ESG factors to target three 
investors go a step further and base  goals: alpha returns, beta returns and 
their investments in ESG hedge  risk management (Figure 1.2).
funds with the view that they offer 
Figure 1.2 How are ESG factors being used? 11
38%
EExxeeccuuttiivvee  
ssuummmmaarryy
55%
7%
Target alpha 2
Target beta
Manage fat-tail/far-off risks
Source: KPMG–CAIA–AIMA–CREATE Survey 2020
The rise of ESG 
in the hedge 
fund industry
3
The rise of  
sustainable 
investing
55 SSuussttaaiinnaabbllee  iinnvveessttiinngg::  ffaasstt -ffoorrwwaarrddiinngg  iittss  eevvoolluuttiioonn 
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
2
  ESG investing faces various obstacles
a. Data problems
In terms of the familiar life cycle, hedge  A number of factors have conspired 
fund managers’ advance into ESG is  against progress thus far.  ESG should come 
happening incrementally (Figure 1.3). 
Far and away, the most important one  with a story. It can’t 
Currently, 15 percent of our surveyed  is the lack of quality and consistent data 
just be about financial 
managers define themselves as at  on ESG factors, as cited by 63 percent 
the ’mature‘ stage, where ESG is  of our hedge fund respondents  performance. 
implemented across the firm via  in Section 2. Another notable one 
11
appropriate policies, committees,  has been confusion over industry  A US alternative 
research and data.  terminology (36 percent).  investment firm
A further 44 percent are at  While there is widespread acceptance 
the ‘in progress’ stage, where  that the currently available data suffer 
implementation is piecemeal across the  from many shortcomings — such as  EExxeeccuuttiivvee  
business, while a significant 31 percent  inconsistent company disclosures,  ssuummmmaarryy
are still at the ‘awareness-raising’ stage,  voluntary reporting, opaque research 
leaving the remaining 10 percent at the  methodologies and unreliable ratings — 
‘no implementation to date’ stage.  there is also recognition that the quality of 
the available data is improving constantly.
Figure 1.3  Where is your organization currently in the ESG-implementation life-cycle?
10%
15%
2
The rise of ESG 
31% in the hedge 
fund industry
44%
No implementation to date
Awareness-raising
In progress 3
Mature already
Source: KPMG–CAIA–AIMA–CREATE Survey 2020
The rise of  
sustainable 
investing
6 Sustainable investing: fast-forwarding its evolution
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
b. Divided views
When it comes to the quality of ESG  available data or overwhelmed by 
data, hedge fund managers‘ views  the challenge of filtering out the 
differ (Figure 1.4).  noise. Inconsistencies in data and 
company disclosures make it difficult 
On the plus side are managers who 
to incorporate them into research and 
take an opportunistic or inquisitive 
investment processes. Extracting 
stance in the belief that the data 
meaningful alpha signals from them 
problems are nothing more than 
remains a herculean task for some 
disguised opportunities to deliver alpha 
managers. 
by exploiting the resulting market 
inefficiencies. Unstructured data  Hence, they are cautious about making 
sets provide an opening to employ  bets on strategies not tested by time or  11
machine learning and other quantitative  events over extended periods. 
solutions to better understand the 
Finally, apart from the data issues, 
market.
two other factors were also identified 
Indeed, many of their institutional  by a minority of surveyed hedge fund 
EExxeeccuuttiivvee  
clients believe that such inefficiencies  managers as slowing progress. 
ssuummmmaarryy
will be a key source of alpha, which 
Shown in Section 2, the factors are: 
hedge fund managers are well placed 
ESG is not relevant to the investment 
to harvest on account of three inherent 
strategies being pursued (25 percent) 
advantages: their deep talent pool; 
and lack of quality investment 
their widely acclaimed expertise 
opportunities (21 percent). 
in shareholder activism; and their 
sophisticated trading and machine  The implications are clear: not all hedge 
learning algorithms, which are geared  fund strategies are created equal from 
towards real-time investing. an ESG perspective because not all 
managers see ESG in the same light. 
On the opposite side are managers 
who are either skeptical about the 
2
Figure 1.4  Which of the following best describes your organization’s attitude 
towards ESG data?
9%
The rise of ESG  
in the hedge 
25%
fund industry
47% 19% 3
Opportunistic
Inquisitive The rise of  
sustainable 
Skeptical
investing
Overwhelmed
Source: KPMG–CAIA–AIMA–CREATE Survey 2020
7 Sustainable investing: fast-forwarding its evolution
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
3 Perfection cannot be the enemy of progress 
a. ESG approaches
That ESG is coming into the hedge fund  traction lately as management teams 
space is not in doubt; nor that it is coming  have been slow to react to both ESG  ESG takes time, 
on the back of a variety of approaches,  challenges and opportunities. 
patience and skill. 
reflecting the heterogeneity of hedge 
While implementing ESG factors into the 
fund strategies (Figure 1.5).
investment process, portfolio managers 
A global alternative 
Three approaches have been used by at  make various assumptions about their 
investment firm
least three in every 10 surveyed hedge  relevance, weight and intercorrelation. 
11
fund managers with many of them  These may or may not be correct. The 
adopting more than one approach. underlying relationships they seek to 
establish may or may not remain stable. 
The first one is ESG integration 
The forecasts they seek to build on may 
(52 percent). This has involved 
or may not be viable. 
identifying material factors and  EExxeeccuuttiivvee  
incorporating them into traditional  To complement the exercise, therefore,  ssuummmmaarryy
investment processes. In most cases,  shareholder engagement is seen as 
such factors are treated on a par with  a vital tool that serves two purposes: 
financial factors.  to enrich the investment process with 
firsthand knowledge about the investee 
The second approach is negative 
company; and to steer the investee 
screening (50 percent). This involves 
company into the ESG space via 
excluding stocks that sit uncomfortably 
discussion, dialogue and proxy voting.
with the value system of investors as 
mentioned earlier. Given the clarity of  For their part, investee companies need 
exclusion criteria, this approach has  to have a clear ESG policy as well as 
been the easiest one to implement.  mechanisms for monitoring outcomes.
2
The third one is shareholder engagement 
(31 percent), which has been gaining 
Figure 1.5  Which of the following best describes your organization’s strategy when 
The rise of ESG  
it comes to ESG?
in the hedge 
fund industry
52%
50%
31%
19% 3
12%
5%
5%
Sustainability Negative Shareholder Impact Positive Thematic The rise of  
integration screening engagement investing screening investing sustainable 
investing
Source: KPMG–CAIA–AIMA–CREATE Survey 2020
8 Sustainable investing: fast-forwarding its evolution
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
b. ESG outcomes
Against this background, when asked  report ‘positive’ outcomes; 14 percent 
to describe the performance outcomes  report ‘negative’ outcomes; and the 
of their organization’s ESG-oriented  remaining 75 percent saying neither. 
investments so far, the verdict from 
In both cases, the implied message 
both our surveys is broadly similar 
is simple: it’s too soon to tell, given 
(Figure 1.6). 
the rather short track record of these 
Taking them in turn, 29 percent of  investments. 
hedge fund managers in our survey 
However, our post-survey interviews 
report ‘positive’ outcomes and none 
also indicate that the managers who 
report ‘negative’ outcomes; leaving 
took an early lead are not only meeting 
the remaining 71 percent saying it is  11
performance expectations via prime 
neither positive nor negative. 
mover advantage, they are also 
As for their institutional clients, they  emerging as the ‘best in class’ across 
appear less sanguine so far: 11 percent  the entire investment spectrum.
EExxeeccuuttiivvee  
ssuummmmaarryy
Figure 1.6  Which of the following best describes the outcome of your 
organization’s ESG-oriented investments so far?
Hedge fund managers' survey Institutional investors' survey
11%
14%
29%
2
The rise of ESG  
71% in the hedge 
fund industry
75%
Positive
Uncertain
Negative
Source: KPMG–CAIA–AIMA–CREATE Survey 2020
3
The rise of  
sustainable 
investing
9 Sustainable investing: fast-forwarding its evolution
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
4 Best practice can shift the needle 
Best practice in the ESG space is a  a. Guard against greenwashing 
moving target. It’s no longer enough 
The template of taxonomy and data that 
for a hedge fund manager to rely on  As a firm, we have 
sit at the heart of sustainable investing 
exclusion screens. Increasingly, there is 
is evolving, while institutional investors’  a strong view that 
an expectation that investments should 
interest in green issues has skyrocketed. 
generate a positive (and measurable)  ESG integration 
Hopes have run ahead of expectations. 
ESG impact, while managing the 
is at the core 
inherent risks. The result has been greenwashing: 
shortcuts taken by some managers  of sound risk 
Additionally, as the hedge fund industry  11
to repurpose their old funds with 
becomes ever more institutionalized, its  management. 
an ESG label without rejigging the 
ESG practices are likely to attract much 
underlying investment process. The 
greater scrutiny.  A global alternative 
problem is widespread right across 
investment firm
The business model of hedge funds  the entire investment industry. It is 
EExxeeccuuttiivvee  
will likely be dependent on delivering  largely attributed to the data problems 
ssuummmmaarryy
decent financial returns (and thus  mentioned earlier.
generating performance fees). But it 
As for hedge funds, 41 percent of 
may be expected to deliver nonfinancial 
respondents in our institutional investor 
outcomes too, over time.
survey report a ‘significant amount of 
To fast-forward the ESG implementation  greenwashing’; 11 percent report ‘some 
cycle, our survey identified four key  greenwashing’; and 48 percent are 
enablers.  ‘not sure’. Those reporting a ‘minimal 
amount’ is zero (Figure 1.7). 
Figure 1.7  From the investor perspective, which of the following best describes your  2
views about the extent of ‘greenwashing’ in the hedge fund industry at 
this early stage as it embraces ESG investing?
The rise of ESG  
in the hedge 
41%
fund industry
48%
11% 3
Significant amount of greenwashing
Some amount of greenwashing
Minimal amount of greenwashing
The rise of  
Not sure
sustainable 
investing
Source: KPMG–CAIA–AIMA–CREATE Survey 2020
10 Sustainable investing: fast-forwarding its evolution
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
The concerted action now in progress  signatory, 17 percent are in the process  all. Of those who do, 23 percent use 
by data vendors, index providers, asset  of becoming one and the remaining  the PRI framework and 11 percent use 
managers and listed companies to  48 percent are not planning to do so in  customized metrics — as shown in 
improve data quality and their definitional  the near future — as shown in Section 2.  Section 2.
consistency is expected to ease the 
Currently, 56 percent of managers  Yet, from the perspective of institutional 
problem over time. The tighter regulatory 
have a policy of embedding PRI into  investors, the problem seems far more 
oversight on greenwashing is hastening 
the cultural fabric of the business.  widespread: 85 percent of them state 
the process, especially in Europe. 
This is essential if managers are to  that their hedge fund managers do not 
For their part, some institutional  enhance credibility, authenticity and  report on nonfinancial impacts. 
investors also take a pragmatic view.  transparency. 
Once again, the numbers indicate huge 
As an investment elixir, ESG’s advance 
The numbers in both cases leave  scope for improvement if hedge fund 
requires them to accept that at least a 
significant scope for increase in the  managers are to attract the rising tide   11
part of today’s greenwashing reflects 
next few years for strategies that are  of institutional money.
the teething problems of a better form 
amenable to ESG investing.
of investing. Progress may come at 
a price. In the meantime, they are 
c.  Improve ESG reporting
getting better at separating winners 
EExxeeccuuttiivvee  
from spinners.  Measurement and reporting on the 
nonfinancial impact of investments  Integrity is critical. ssuummmmaarryy
b.  Comply with industry codes  represent the next frontier for 
If you’re going to 
and principles sustainable investing, as investors and 
regulators are stepping up demand for  call yourself an ESG 
The UN-sponsored Principles for 
timely and fuller disclosures. Hedge fund 
Responsible Investment (PRI) are now  investor, it’s vital 
managers need to stay ahead of the 
widely adopted as an industry wide 
curve to remain relevant in a world where  to have the right 
standard — by asset managers and their 
best practice is a moving target. 
institutional clients alike.  processes in place. 
Currently, more than half (57 percent) 
Thirty-five percent of hedge fund 
of the surveyed hedge fund managers  An impact investing 
managers in our survey are a PRI 
do not report on ESG performance at  consultant
2
The rise of ESG  
in the hedge 
fund industry
3
The rise of  
sustainable 
investing
11 Sustainable investing: fast-forwarding its evolution
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
d. Adopt Active Ownership 2.0 the surveyed hedge fund managers 
are already relying on shareholder 
Hedge funds are ideally suited for 
engagement to advance their ESG  
shareholder activism that targets  Is this a magic 
agenda — as shown in Section 2. 
companies underperforming on 
moment to remake 
sustainability issues. Our interviews  However, except for high-profile proxy 
show that there is a return premium in  cases, end-investors do not as yet  our business?
helping an ESG laggard among investee  have a clear idea on what value is being 
companies to become a leader.  generated by engagement activities due  A US hedge fund manager 
to the lack of fuller details. Engagement 
The emerging model shows that 
reports need to carry far more 
responsible ownership is an important 
granularity than seems to be the general 
part of the ESG toolkit that must be 
practice currently.
taken seriously. Indeed, 74 percent of  11
To conclude this subsection, therefore, the overriding message 
EExxeeccuuttiivvee  
from the surveyed hedge fund managers and their institutional 
ssuummmmaarryy
investors is simple: ESG investing will likely continue to gain 
traction in the hedge fund industry, duly taking into account that 
some hedge fund strategies are more amenable to ESG than 
others.
ESG investing is not about jumping on the bandwagon; rather, it is 
about seeking to deliver financial and nonfinancial outcomes while 
managing the inherent risks.
2
The rise of ESG  
in the hedge 
fund industry
3
The rise of  
sustainable 
investing
1122 Sustainable investing: fast-forwarding its evolution
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
Part II. Early adopters: their story
Sustainable investing is about creating businesses of 
1
enduring value 
The ecosystem of capital markets is  As a result, early adopters have 
evolving gradually towards sustainable  augmented their approaches by 
investing. But it remains a slow process.  integrating key sustainability features 
There are no shortcuts 
Large institutional investors have  into their investment processes to 
been at the vanguard, according to  achieve a double bottom-line: do  to sustainability. 
11
the three groups who participated in  well and do good, according to our 
our interview survey for this section:  interviews with early adopters. Over  A Swedish institutional 
institutional investors, large hedge fund  80 percent of their sustainability assets  investor
managers and large long only managers.  are at this aspirational stage. 
Their approaches extend beyond ESG 
A minority have also ventured into  EExxeeccuuttiivvee  
and cover sustainable investing in 
private markets — private equity,  ssuummmmaarryy
its broadest sense, as defined in the 
infrastructure and private debt — to 
introduction to this section. 
target measurable societal outcomes on 
top of the financial ones. 
a. In the beginning
In all cases, progress is driven by large 
For early adopters, the journey started 
institutional investors who are moving 
with the exclusion of ‘sin’ stocks: shares 
well beyond a green ‘do-gooder’ image, 
in companies associated with activities 
duly taking account of the multidecade 
deemed unethical. 
nature of their future liabilities. 
Over time, it was recognized that 
In deference to enlightened self-interest, 
exclusion reduced the scope for 
these investors are seeking to future-proof 
diversification somewhat. In any case,  2
their portfolios against hard-to-model risks 
dumping ‘sin’ stocks yielded handsome 
that are inherent in secular forces — like 
profits to those who bought them 
global warming, governance lapses, 
without doing anything to pressure or 
inequalities — that could pose existential 
influence the ‘sinners’. 
threats to investee companies.
The rise of ESG  
in the hedge 
fund industry
3
The rise of  
sustainable 
investing
13 Sustainable investing: fast-forwarding its evolution
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
b. Current journey —  creating a culture and belief that 
sustainability is not just another 
As a result, such investors are now 
fad, but a sea change in the way 
increasingly embedding sustainability  Sustainable investing 
investing is to be done
into the DNA of their own organization 
requires a joined-up 
and enjoining their asset managers to  —  harnessing the collective memory of 
do the same in the emerging model of  the business via joined-up thinking  business.
sustainability that focuses on a number  between the investment team and 
of critical areas and their interlinkages  the stewardship team  A large US fixed income 
(Figure 1.8). 
manager
—  ensuring that their portfolio 
The model perceives capital markets  managers and research analysts 
as an essential bridgehead to a more  develop the requisite expertise 
purposive capitalism that delivers  into the dynamics of sustainability  11
businesses of enduring value for  factors 
their four key stakeholder groups: 
—  encouraging regular engagement 
shareholders, employees, customers 
with investee companies, 
and wider society.
setting realistic expectations and 
EExxeeccuuttiivvee  
At this early stage, the model also  continuously monitoring progress.
ssuummmmaarryy
envisions sustainability as an evolutionary 
These requirements impact on all 
journey of experiential learning where 
vital activities in the investment value 
ideas beget ideas. It enjoins business 
chain. So, the process is necessarily 
leaders at asset management firms to set 
evolutionary.
the ‘tone at the top’ by: 
Figure 1.8 Creating sustainability DNA in business models 
Leadership
2
I n v estment tea
m
The rise of ESG  
in the hedge 
fund industry
Research
Beliefs Integration
Monitoring Engagement
3
Collaboration
m
Stewardship t e a The rise of  
sustainable 
investing
Culture
Source: KPMG–CAIA–AIMA–CREATE Interview Survey 2020
14 Sustainable investing: fast-forwarding its evolution
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
2
Capital markets are slow to price in sustainability risks
Three forces inherent in capital markets  institutional investors who are at the  c.  Tentative evidence of success 
are slowing progress. Each is expected  vanguard of sustainable investing.  so far
to weaken over time, as ever more 
Under it, listed companies are  Evidence suggests that the early 
investors switch from the old ways of 
incentivized on short-term profits at  generation of investors in sustainability 
investing that solely targeted financial 
the expense of long-term growth.  are satisfied with their returns so far. But 
returns.
Some institutional investors believe  as the new wall of money has arrived, a 
a. Steep learning curve of data that equity markets have, as a result,  critical question has come to the fore:  
morphed from a source of raising  Is sustainability a risk factor?
Currently, investors are enjoined to  investment capital for growing  11
climb a steep learning curve because  companies to a vehicle for cash  Early adopters fall into two camps: 
of a lack of the requisite data on three  distribution and balance sheet  believers and pragmatists. 
foundational concepts in sustainable  management. Believers advanced three arguments. 
investing: materiality, intentionality and 
additionality.  Markets are no longer effective  —  Sustainability is a risk factor for sure;  EExxeeccuuttiivvee  
conduits between savers planning  except that, so far, it is a compensated 
ssuummmmaarryy
Respectively, they seek to assess: for a decent retirement nest egg and  factor in Europe, but much less so in 
—  how material are various  borrowers deploying savings to create  the US and Asia Pacific. 
wealth, jobs, skills and innovation.
sustainability factors to a company’s 
—  The compensated element has 
financial performance, such that  In the ‘new economy’, capital formation  varied over time and between 
their inherent risks are managed? is mainly happening in the private  the three individual components: 
—  does the company intend to act on  markets where transparency is low.  environment, social and governance. 
Companies are staying private longer 
them and ‘do good’ via its products, 
—  The huge collective push from 
and are mostly outside the public 
services and interactions with wider 
governments, international agencies 
purview.
society?
and investors worldwide will reshape 
—  does it generate societal benefits in  There may be other, deeper, causes  investor behaviors overtime. It is hard 
addition to financial benefits?  that may lead to the perception  to believe that nothing will change  2
or manifestation of increasing  after all that is happening now.
For asset managers, while their  short-termism in the developed 
sustainability policies are evolving  economies. These could include: the 
rapidly, the requisite infrastructure of  move away from industries depending 
data, skills and technology has yet to  on fixed capital expenditures to  The rise of ESG  
catch up.  more service-oriented businesses in  in the hedge 
mature economies; increased market  fund industry
The problem is exacerbated by the fact 
power of individual companies in 
that there are no generally agreed upon 
certain industries leading to excessive 
guidelines on what constitutes a ‘good’ 
profits and underinvestment; and 
or ‘bad’ company. The result is twofold: 
the deepening of global trade or an 
greenwashing, as asset managers 
increasing rate of the underlying 
repurpose their old funds with 
technological change.
sustainability labels; or whitewashing, 
as investee companies overstate their  All these factors could lead to changes 
On the data front, 
green credentials. Both are widespread  in the way our economies function 
in developed markets. that are either harmless and a simple  progress may be 
manifestation of reaching another  3
exponential, but it is 
b. Quarterly capitalism
stage of economic development, or 
The second force slowing down  potentially harmful but not necessarily  still not enough. 
progress is the rise of ‘quarterly  related to capital market or financial 
capitalism’, as identified by some  institutions' behavior. A Danish institutional investor 
The rise of  
sustainable 
investing
15 Sustainable investing: fast-forwarding its evolution
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
Pragmatists, in turn, think that it is too  banks. Asset valuations have been 
early to say, for two reasons.  lifted indiscriminately. Hence, the 
true test of sustainability should 
—  For any return driver to be treated  Just as it is foolhardy 
not be judged by the assets it has 
as a risk factor, it needs a long 
attracted so far, but by how resilient  to drive a car by looking 
performance history over multiple 
these flows will be when the next  
cycles in multiple regions, within a  in the rearview mirror, 
downturn comes. 
replicable investment process. Data 
so must investors look 
on sustainable investing thus far fall  Both camps agree on one point, though: 
short of these criteria.  given the powerful tailwinds from  forward and factor 
institutional investors, sustainability  
—  Capital markets have enjoyed the  in change. The world 
will be the new frontier of innovation  
longest bull run in history, thanks to 
in the 2020s.  does not stand  
the easy money policies of central  11
still.
A UK asset manager 
EExxeeccuuttiivvee  
3
Best practice is emerging ssuummmmaarryy
The challenges outlined above have  are also collaborating with not-for-profit 
intensified efforts to develop best  institutions globally to develop 
practices that can put sustainability  methodologies on how to measure, 
at the heart of investing. Progress is  report, benchmark and improve 
evident in three areas.  sustainability performance. 
For their part, data vendors are 
a.  Data: room for improvement
experiencing rapid consolidation 
Different constituencies are being  and innovation, as competition has 
encouraged in a concerted action to  intensified. Asset managers, too,  2
tackle what is now sustainability’s  are developing their own proprietary 
Achilles’ heel: the lack of a robust  methodologies in order to gain an 
template with consistent definitions and  information edge on the mispricing of 
reliable data on how companies score  assets. Learning-by-doing remains a 
on various sustainability factors.  powerful tool of progress. The rise of ESG  
in the hedge 
From the investor perspective, for 
b.  Engagement: the new alpha  fund industry
example, climate change is an inexact 
behind alpha
science. Various risks identified by 
the Task Force on Climate-related  Best practice in sustainability involves 
Financial Disclosures have made it  enriching the current infrastructure 
hard for investors to establish a direct  of data, skills and technology 
line of sight between climate science  with shareholder activism that 
and investment outcomes. They are  targets real-world outcomes at scale. 
fraught with as many unknowables as 
For those investment strategies that 
unknowns. 
can do so, their principal tool is direct 
Both institutional investors and asset  engagement.
3
managers are collaborating with over 
150 data vendors to up their game. They 
The rise of  
sustainable 
investing
16 Sustainable investing: fast-forwarding its evolution
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
It rests on the belief that sustainability  by seeking progress in three 
only works if company boards are not  mutually reinforcing related areas: 
only called to account but also held  communication, learning and internal 
Effective 
accountable. They must: politics (Figure 1.9). 
engagement 
—   justify their decisions and be  These approaches seek to promote new 
responsible for their outcomes  learning in the belief that ideas breed  requires deeper 
ideas and only improved collaboration 
—   create an agenda for change and  communication, 
can deliver the goals of all stakeholders. 
acceptable standards that are 
continuous learning 
consistent with its delivery  Indeed, some investors believe 
that engagement enables them to  and minimal internal 
—  engage in proxy voting to ensure 
develop structural capital that offers 
that investors’ voices are heard in  politics.
an informational edge: ever-deepening  11
board-level deliberations 
knowledge about how sustainability 
—  foster year-round dialogue with  is actually being implemented on the  A large German asset 
investee companies beyond  ground via positive feedback loops.  manager
shareholder meetings. 
Indeed, as they have moved up the 
EExxeeccuuttiivvee  
learning curve, asset managers have 
The days when engagement was a  ssuummmmaarryy
realized the power of engagement — 
box-ticking exercise using a boilerplate 
often in collaboration with other investors 
narrative are over. 
who have, for example, worked closely 
Asset managers are increasingly  with energy giants on plans to reduce 
expected to act as agents of change  their carbon emissions.
Figure 1.9 Engagement that goes beyond the hype of sustainability
2
Communication Learning
 — Promoting a free exchange   — Going behind the dry 
  of ideas   financial numbers
 — Setting mutually   — Gaining insights into the harsh  
  demanding expectations   reality on the ground
The rise of ESG  
 — Building trusting relationships  — Building structural capital  in the hedge 
  via year-round conversations   that provides an informational 
fund industry
 — Engaging in proxy voting   edge on sustainability issues
 — Devising collaborative 
  solutions
Internal politics
 — Understanding the internal 
politics and constraints within 
both parties
 — Devising approaches that  3
navigate the resulting 
complexity
 — Minimizing compliance 
box-ticking
 — Bridging the rhetoric–reality  The rise of  
gap around sustainability  
sustainable 
investing
Source: KPMG–CAIA–AIMA–CREATE Survey 2020
17 Sustainable investing: fast-forwarding its evolution
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
A more pragmatic ‘carrot and stick’  —  Integration: develop an integrated 
approach to engagement is coming into  core–specialist portfolio to give 
view. Under it, if engagement does not  investors greater choice and diversity 
By the end of the 
work, asset managers will resort to the 
—  Clarity: deliver transparency that 
nuclear option — divestment.  2020s, sustainability 
sets a direct line of sight between the 
sustainability policy of the manager  will be the gold 
c. I mplementation: upping the 
and its activities
game  standard of  
—  Articulation: demonstrate how 
Except for large institutional investors,  investing.
sustainability is integrated into 
their peers do not as yet have the 
covenants that currently disallow 
resources to do in-house investing and/
voting at AGMs or meaningful  A Belgian asset manager
or engage directly with their investee 
engagement  11
companies — they rely on their asset 
managers. Hence, sustainability  —  Interest alignment: have an 
capabilities are the most important  equitable sharing of pain and gain 
criteria in manager selection.  with clients, as well as common 
beliefs and time horizons.
Asset managers are thus enjoined to seek 
EExxeeccuuttiivvee  
continuous improvements in five areas:
ssuummmmaarryy
—  Data: step up pressure for quality 
improvements in the supply chains of 
sustainability data
To conclude, therefore, early adopters see sustainable investing as 
serving their own long-term enlightened self-interests as much as 
those of wider society. 
Progress so far confirms that sustainability is a long journey of 
experiential learning in which a series of small steps will add up to  2
a giant leap by the end of this decade.
The rise of ESG  
in the hedge 
fund industry
3
The rise of  
sustainable 
investing
18 Sustainable investing: fast-forwarding its evolution
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
The rise of ESG in the hedge 
2
fund industry 
How are managers advancing?
1
Executive 
summary
22
TThhee  rriissee  ooff  EESSGG   
iinn  tthhee  hheeddggee  
ffuunndd  iinndduussttrryy
3
The rise of  
sustainable 
investing
19 Sustainable investing: fast-forwarding its evolution
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
As in the long only space, so in the hedge fund industry: there is no one-size-fits-all approach to ESG. 
Different strategies and fund sizes demand different approaches. This is not a flaw: it is an important 
characteristic of ESG. There is room for everyone, including short sellers. 
But this range of approaches brings its own challenges: a lack of quality data; a lack of uniform 
disclosure criteria; a shortage of knowledge or expertise; difficulty in finding the right investment 
opportunities; and lack of internal consensus. These and other challenges are all surmountable, with 
enough time and effort. 
Advancing in the implementation cycle requires time, patience and skill. Hedge fund managers 
must learn by doing, but fortunately, they tend to be fast adopters and quick learners. Hedge fund 
1
managers should seek to collaborate with peers, competitors and specialist global networks to catch 
up in the ESG space. 
Best practice is a moving target. Data are getting better. Shareholder engagement is getting stronger. 
Executive 
ESG metrics and reporting frameworks are becoming standardized. Talent is becoming more 
summary
accessible. Tailwinds are gathering behind the adoption process. 
Information in this section is based on  fund managers can offer ESG-oriented 
two electronic surveys carried out for this  investors, especially when compared 
report, involving hedge fund managers  with many of their long only peers.
We are seeing the 
and their institutional clients, and is 
—  Talent: hedge fund managers are 
bolstered by post-survey interviews.  hedge fund industry 
well known for the breadth and 
Their focus was on ESG investing.
depth of their talent pool, whether  evolve from a mindset 
When it comes to ESG, hedge funds  it’s portfolio managers, traders, 
of resistance to one of  22
were an outlier. Whereas their peers in  researchers or, increasingly, 
other investment sectors were moving  computer scientists adoption on ESG. 
apace, the hedge fund industry was a 
—  Technology: they have long 
relative latecomer. 
harnessed the power of technology  An institutional consultant 
There are a variety of contributing  by building sophisticated trading  TThhee  rriissee  ooff  EESSGG   
factors, ranging from skepticism about  and machine-learning algorithms  iinn  tthhee  hheeddggee  
the value of ESG, to confusion over  that permit real-time investment  ffuunndd  iinndduussttrryy
industry terminology, to legitimate  decisions
challenges incorporating ESG factors. 
—  Flexibility: the legal structure of 
The Spectrum of Capital, discussed in  a hedge fund makes it one of the 
Section 3, is an appropriate parallel for  most flexible investment vehicles, 
the wide diversity of strategies in the  investing across asset classes and 
hedge fund industry. Indeed, even the  using derivatives, leverage and 
term ‘hedge fund’ is not a particularly  shorting, as needed 
useful identifier for what a hedge fund 
—  Activism: many hedge fund 
is or does. No two hedge funds are the 
managers made their name by 
same, and therefore, no two approaches  3
engaging in public proxy fights and 
to ESG either should or will be the same.
other shareholder battles, and have 
Yet, our post-survey interviews identified  extensive experience in the art of 
several potential advantages that hedge  shareholder engagement. 
The rise of  
sustainable 
investing
20 Sustainable investing: fast-forwarding its evolution
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
However, these advantages will only  C. What are the emerging best practices 
come to the forefront if hedge fund  that hedge fund managers can adopt 
managers take concrete steps to  to fast-forward their progress in the 
We see growing 
embrace ESG across the organization.  implementation cycle?
evidence of 
Accordingly, this section seeks to  These questions are separately 
answer three key questions. considered in the next three subsections  immediate or short-
in order to highlight how hedge fund 
A. What are the key drivers of the  term value creation in 
managers are progressing towards a 
increased interest in ESG?
sustainable future. sustainability rather 
B. What are the key constraints 
than just long term.
preventing its faster adoption within the 
hedge fund industry?
1
An institutional consultant 
1. Key drivers 
Executive 
summary
It is clear that there is growing interest  ‘no change‘ in interest. Not a single 
in ESG-oriented strategies, products and  survey respondent reported decreased 
funds across the hedge fund industry,  interest when given the choice: a clear 
according to our survey of hedge fund  sign that sustainability is a credible 
managers (Figure 2.1): 84 percent of  phenomenon in the hedge fund 
them reported an increase in interest  industry. 
over the preceding 12 months, with 
Further analysis revealed two key drivers 
more than half (58 percent) citing it as 
to be at work: growing investor demand 
a ‘significant increase’. The remaining 
and growing evidence of the materiality 
16 percent said that there was  22
of ESG, as shown in Figure 2.2.
Figure 2.1  How would you describe the change in interest or demand in your 
organization’s ESG capabilities or strategies over the last 12 months?
16% TThhee  rriissee  ooff  EESSGG   
iinn  tthhee  hheeddggee  
ffuunndd  iinndduussttrryy
26%
58%
3
Significant increase
The rise of  
Modest increase sustainable 
No change investing
Decrease
Source: KPMG–CAIA–AIMA–CREATE Survey 2020
21 Sustainable investing: fast-forwarding its evolution
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
a. Growing investor demand launched dedicated ESG funds, while 
others have crafted policies that clarify 
Like in other parts of the asset 
how sustainability factors were taken 
management industry, the initial  Hedge fund managers 
into consideration as part of their 
wave of interest in sustainability in 
investment processes. should focus on the 
the hedge fund industry has come 
from institutional investors and their  While the scope and scale of the  economics of ESG, 
consultants, as cited by 72 percent  response to investor demand seems 
not its morality. 
of surveyed hedge fund managers  to vary widely across the hedge fund 
(Figure 2.2).  industry, the speed of the response 
An institutional consultant
has been notable. Almost every hedge 
These institutional investors — and 
fund manager who participated in 
their consultants — have been vocal 
our post-survey interviews had made 
in demanding that their portfolios  1
improvements to their ESG programs 
not be exposed to the so-called ‘sin’ 
(or started them from scratch) in the 
industries like fossil fuels or weapons 
last 12 months, potentially signaling a 
manufacturing, with a growing number 
coming sea-shift across the industry.
of them also seeking to use their 
capital to generate positive social and  This is further corroborated by a  Executive 
environmental outcomes. recent survey of over 600 institutional  summary
investors, evenly split among the US, 
Hedge fund managers, accordingly, 
the UK, Canada, Germany, Japan and 
have begun to respond by making 
the Netherlands, with US$9 trillion in 
their investments more ESG-oriented. 
combined assets. The survey provides 
Some of our survey respondents have 
further insights into investor thinking1. 
Figure 2.2  What are your organization’s biggest drivers when making ESG-oriented 
investments?
Hedge fund managers' survey 22
Growing institutional investor and/or consultant demand 72%
Alignment with the corporate mission or values 37%
Evidence of the materiality of sustainability issues 35% TThhee  rriissee  ooff  EESSGG   
iinn  tthhee  hheeddggee  
Opportunities to generate alpha 22% ffuunndd  iinndduussttrryy
Competitive pressure 19%
Regulatory or political pressure 16%
Attracting and retaining talent 7%
Source: KPMG–CAIA–AIMA–CREATE Survey 2020
3
The rise of  
sustainable 
investing
22 Sustainable investing: fast-forwarding its evolution
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
It showed that: a positive correlation between ESG and 
financial performance, and just 8 percent 
—  84 percent of respondents agree 
reported a negative correlation2. 
that maximizing shareholder returns 
can no longer be the primary goal of  Of course, there is not yet conclusive 
the corporation: business leaders  evidence that there is a positive 
must commit to balancing the needs  correlation between ESG and 
of other stakeholders performance. Some have even 
vocally argued that there is a negative 
—  87 percent of respondents say  
correlation, and that sustainability 
their organizations have changed 
considerations may actually hurt portfolio 
their voting and/or engagement 
performance — at least when applied 
policies to be more attentive to ESG 
over shorter time horizons. 
risks 1
While there may be some validity to 
—  86 percent would consider investing 
these arguments, there are clearly 
with a lower rate of return, especially 
a growing number of hedge fund 
if it meant investing in a company 
managers who have bought into ESG as 
that addresses sustainable or impact 
a way to generate outsized returns. The  Executive 
investing considerations
materiality debate has also turned the  summary
—  61 percent have increased their  spotlight on the role of shorting in ESG 
investment allocation to companies  investing (case study 2A).
that excel in ESG factors and more 
than half of investors believe that  c. Other factors 
ESG practices positively impact trust
There were two other notable drivers 
—  99 percent of respondents expect  cited by hedge fund managers that also 
the board of directors (of the  influenced their increased adoption of 
companies in which they invest)   ESG. While these paled in comparison 
to oversee at least one ESG topic. to the top two drivers mentioned above, 
they are important to keep in mind as 
b. E  vidence of the materiality  the industry evolves, for they have the  22
of ESG potential to act as catalyzing forces in the 
years ahead.
There is a growing body of academic 
literature and industry research that  i. Regulatory changes
supports the double bottom-line 
Currently, hedge fund managers seem  TThhee  rriissee  ooff  EESSGG   
proposition: an investor can do well 
relatively unperturbed by regulatory or  iinn  tthhee  hheeddggee  
financially by being good socially. That is, 
political pressures when it comes to  ffuunndd  iinndduussttrryy
ESG is not only a part of the risk–return 
ESG for a simple reason: its rise so far 
equation, it could potentially also 
has largely rested on voluntary or self-
generate additional benefits for the wider 
regulatory initiatives. But it is highly 
community, as discussed in Section 3. 
likely that this bottom-up momentum 
For instance, a meta-study of more than  will be complemented by new 
2,000 research papers on equity returns  regulation in certain parts of the world.
found that 63 percent of studies reported 
3
The rise of  
sustainable 
investing
23 Sustainable investing: fast-forwarding its evolution
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
In the past 2 years alone, there has  consensus that there will eventually be 
been a dizzying array of proposals  a dramatic policy response that will up-
across different jurisdictions that  end global financial markets3.
Regulation is coming 
would, if implemented, rewrite the 
To take one example, consider the issue 
rules of finance — as described in  to give sustainability 
of stranded assets. The Carbon Tracker 
Section 3. Initial indications are that, 
Initiative estimates that as much as  more teeth, with the EU 
like their long only peers, most hedge 
US$2.3 trillion of oil and gas assets may 
fund managers have yet to take  leading the way. 
become stranded as the world shifts to 
proactive steps in preparation for 
a low- or zero-carbon economy. Already, 
policy changes, likely since most of the  A global alternative 
major fossil fuel companies have written 
proposed rules are still at the outline  investment firm
off billions of dollars’ worth of oil and 
stage and months and years away from 
gas assets from their balance sheets. 
enactment.  1
The stranded asset problem may also 
As an additional resource, hedge  eventually apply to plastics companies, 
funds should familiarize themselves  manufacturing companies, agricultural 
with the PRI’s report on the ‘Inevitable  companies and even some food 
Policy Response'. While governments  companies, which would force a broad 
Executive 
are clearly behind actions to address  repricing of their market valuations  
summary
climate change, there is growing  over time4. 
Case study 2A: 
The ethics of shorting
A philosophical debate has  involves potentially profiting  can then be used to help fund 
erupted over the last couple of  from job losses if a company  additional investment, research 
years on whether shorting has a  has to lay off workers or even  or engagement activities. 
place in ESG-oriented portfolios.  goes bankrupt. Another is that  22
Shorting can also be a source of 
it requires holding ‘sin’ stocks 
The latest salvo came from Hiro  differentiated returns, particularly 
if betting against a company in 
Mizuno, chief investment officer  in down markets. 
a sector like tobacco, which is 
of Japan’s Government Pension 
an issue for investors with strict  We don’t think there’s a simple 
Investment Fund (GPIF).  TThhee  rriissee  ooff  EESSGG   
exclusion lists.  answer to the shorting question.  iinn  tthhee  hheeddggee  
In December 2019, the GPIF  There should be nothing wrong  ffuunndd  iinndduussttrryy
But we take a different view, 
announced that it would stop  with hedge fund managers 
which is that short selling has an 
lending its global equity stocks out  profiting from the sunsetting 
important place in the investment 
to short sellers, arguing that short  of certain carbon-intensive 
industry, especially in the broader 
selling promotes a short-term  industries, as long as they 
sustainability context. 
mindset and is therefore contrary  are clear about their intended 
to the idea that sustainability  Short selling can increase the  approach. 
should be a long-term game.  cost of capital for sin stocks, 
Ultimately, it should be the 
especially if shorting bonds 
We have heard opponents of  prerogative of the investor to 
within a fixed income strategy.  3
shorting cite a number of reasons  decide whether or not to invest in 
for why short selling is ’bad‘. Short selling, if done  a fund manager that engages in 
successfully, can generate a  short selling. 
One of the key arguments is 
positive financial return, which 
that short selling, if successful,  A long-short equity manager
The rise of  
sustainable 
investing
24 Sustainable investing: fast-forwarding its evolution
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
ii.  Alignment with the corporate  investment management industry, 
mission  which is being held to a higher ethical 
standard. The business model of hedge 
Many hedge fund managers are also  We see some hedge 
funds will always be dependent on 
looking at the ESG rise from a mission-
delivering decent financial returns (and  funds write off 
driven mindset. After all, it stands to 
thus generating performance fees). 
reason that if hedge fund managers  sustainability as an 
But although that will be necessary, it 
believe in the positive relationship 
won’t be sufficient. Implementing ESG  exclusionary approach 
between ESG and long-term value 
factors where they are relevant will 
creation, then they would also agree that  and continue to peddle 
be essential for attracting institutional 
having strong requisite practices internally 
money. misconceptions about 
is also a recipe for long-term success.
it to investors. 
Many managers have always known that  d. Investor perspective 1
having a diverse team, strong corporate 
We also surveyed institutional investors 
An institutional consultant 
governance and fair compensation 
to ascertain the key factors driving their 
schemes are all key to running a well-
allocations to ESG-driven hedge funds. 
functioning business. Those managers 
We found several parallels between 
that best articulated a corporate mission  Executive 
what drives hedge funds and what drives 
and a set of values beyond just generating  summary
investors, with materiality at the core of 
strong financial returns also tended 
the decision-making processes of both 
to attract and retain the best talent, 
groups (Figure 2.3).
according to our post-survey interviews. It 
confirmed the point in Section 3 that ESG  Nearly half (44 percent) of surveyed 
is as much about mindset shifts as about  investors said their allocations to 
physical changes in business models.  ESG-oriented hedge funds were driven 
by ‘opportunities to generate alpha’ and 
As the hedge fund industry becomes 
34 percent were driven by ‘evidence of 
ever more institutionalized, these 
the materiality of ESG issues’.
practices are likely to attract greater 
scrutiny. This is true of the broader 
22
Figure 2.3 What are your organization’s key drivers of ESG-oriented investments?
Institutional investors’ survey
TThhee  rriissee  ooff  EESSGG   
Opportunities to generate alpha 44%
iinn  tthhee  hheeddggee  
ffuunndd  iinndduussttrryy
Evidence of the materiality of ESG issues 34%
Growing beneficiary/trustee demand 28%
Regulatory or political pressure 28%
Alignment with the corporate mission or values 25%
Attracting and retaining talent 6%
Competitive pressure 3%
3
Source: KPMG–CAIA–AIMA–CREATE Survey 2020
The rise of  
sustainable 
investing
25 Sustainable investing: fast-forwarding its evolution
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
In contrast, relatively few investors  These figures are supported by our 
(28 percent) were driven by ‘growing  post-survey interviews with investors. 
beneficiary/trustee demand’ or by  They revealed overwhelming recognition  The lack of industry 
‘regulatory or political pressure’.  that at least some aspects of ESG are 
standards has given 
Interestingly, investors didn’t seem  clearly material and therefore should 
any more or less mission-driven than  be incorporated into the investment  hedge fund managers 
hedge funds, with only a quarter  process. It should come as no surprise, 
permission to not 
(25 percent) of investors saying they  then, that investors base much of their 
were motivated by a desire to make  due diligence around ESG and how well  take sustainability 
investments that were aligned with the  their underlying fund managers are able 
seriously. 
corporate mission or values. to use the appropriate data and insights 
to make better-informed investment 
decisions (case study 2B). A US quant manager  1
Case study 2B:  Executive 
summary
ESG as a risk management tool 
As fiduciaries, we look at  about each investment in our  more of a company’s value now 
anything that may materially  portfolio. This picture allows us  tied up in so-called ‘intangible 
affect the financial returns of  to more proactively identify and  assets’ like brand recognition and 
our funds. We believe that ESG  monitor risks, both before and  goodwill, it seems inevitable that 
factors clearly belong in this  after an investment is made.  ESG components like employee 
conversation, particularly as a  This is by no means easy to  diversity and environmental 
risk mitigant. do, but we do think there are  stewardship will take on 
material signals out there waiting  increased importance in future 
While we recognize that the 
to be found for investors willing  investment decision making. 22
ESG data out there can be very 
to do the work. 
noisy, we have found success  A European fund of hedge funds
by combining fundamental  At the end of the day, ESG 
analysis with select data sources  factors should be treated just like 
to create a more holistic picture  other risk factors. With more and  TThhee  rriissee  ooff  EESSGG   
iinn  tthhee  hheeddggee  
ffuunndd  iinndduussttrryy
3
The rise of  
sustainable 
investing
26 Sustainable investing: fast-forwarding its evolution
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
2. Key constraints
When asked to identify the constraints  sustainability data should be viewed 
that are slowing down the adoption of  as an advantage — rather than a 
ESG, the surveyed hedge fund managers  disadvantage — for hedge funds, which 
singled out a number of them, of which  typically rely on market inefficiencies 
two are particularly noteworthy. These are  to generate outperformance. In other 
considered separately below.  words, hedge funds shouldn’t be using 
the lack of ESG data as an excuse not 
a. Lack of quality ESG data to pursue sustainable investments.  1
Instead, they should do the difficult 
If there’s one thing that the hedge fund 
work of identifying which signals are 
managers participating in our interviews 
material and which are not, whether 
agreed on, it’s that there isn’t enough 
through existing data sources or by 
reliable ESG data to clearly identify 
developing proprietary approaches (case 
risk or alpha signals (Figure 2.4). As we  Executive 
study 2C). 
shall see in Section 3, this challenge is  summary
also pervasive across the investment 
b. Shortage of ESG expertise
landscape, including for long only asset 
managers, institutional investors and  Indeed, there were several other 
other alternative investment firms.  challenges that emerged from the 
survey. They could all be traced back to 
While it is true that the current ESG data 
education and/or awareness problems. 
suffer from many shortcomings — like 
More than a third of hedge funds 
inconsistent company disclosures, 
(36 percent) said there was ‘confusion 
opaque research methodologies and 
over industry terminology’, 18 percent 
unreliable ratings — it is also true 
cited a ‘shortage of knowledge or 
that the quality of the available data is 
expertise’ and 9 percent were beset 
improving every day.  22
by a ‘lack of consensus from internal 
In contrast, some of our interviewees  stakeholders’ (Figure 2.4). 
took the view that the lack of quality 
TThhee  rriissee  ooff  EESSGG   
Figure 2.4 What are your organization’s biggest challenges in making ESG-oriented investments?
iinn  tthhee  hheeddggee  
ffuunndd  iinndduussttrryy
Hedge fund managers' survey
Lack of quality/consistent sustainability data 63%
Confusion over industry terminology 36%
Not relevant to our strategy or mandate 25%
Lack of quality investment opportunities 21% 21%
Shortage of knowledge or expertise 18% 18%
Difficulty in delivering both financial and nonfinancial returns 13%
Excessive costs associated with incorporating sustainability 12%
3
Fiduciary concerns
9%
Lack of consensus from internal stakeholders
Political or regulatory uncertainty 1%
The rise of  
Source: KPMG–CAIA–AIMA–CREATE Survey 2020
sustainable 
investing
27 Sustainable investing: fast-forwarding its evolution
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
Just as different hedge fund managers  However, several organizations have 
may have divergent views on ESG,  stepped up to fill the implied education 
so too do different employees within  and talent gap, whether through 
Small hedge fund 
each of these individual firms. This  conferences, trade associations, 
disconnect — whether between the  academic research, third-party  managers face 
investment team and the research  consulting or even specialist recruitment 
excessive costs 
team, or between the C-suite and the  agencies. 
compliance team, or between investors  in implementing 
Many long only managers have hired 
and the investor relations team — is a 
ESG specialists or have even built  sustainability, while 
major barrier to the adoption of ESG and 
dedicated ESG teams; other firms have 
prevents some hedge fund managers  large ones have a 
joined advisory committees at one of the 
from agreeing on a single approach. 
many not-for-profits and standard-setting  marketing machine to 
1
In the early days of ESG there was a  organizations engaged in the ESG space. 
help greenwash. 
noticeable shortage of investment  Most of the managers are upskilling 
professionals who could combine  rather than creating new teams, 
A Nordic hedge fund manager
financial expertise with ESG experience.  however.
Executive 
summary
Case study 2C: 
Turning noise into signal
We’ve heard all of the complaints  doesn’t mean that the data are  a company’s financials or 
about the low quality or  irrelevant or unusable.  sustainability reports. 
unreliability of sustainability data, 
For our part, we’ve looked  It mines vast amounts of 
arising from the inconsistencies 
at many of the third-party  unstructured data in near-real 
in company disclosures and 
sustainability data providers  time, and gives us greater and 
differences in the methodologies 
to determine which data  faster insights into both the 
used by various data providers.  22
points generated a clear alpha  risks and opportunities in our 
While the quality of the data  signal. We couldn’t find one.  investment universe. 
is getting better every day, it’s  Instead, we have devised 
A global quant manager
still nowhere near the level of  our own methodology, which 
traditional financial data. But that  goes a layer deeper beyond 
TThhee  rriissee  ooff  EESSGG   
iinn  tthhee  hheeddggee  
ffuunndd  iinndduussttrryy
c.  Other challenges slowing  These costs can easily pile up and 
down adoption may therefore be prohibitive for some 
small- or mid-sized hedge funds. It’s no 
There are two other challenges worthy 
surprise that the hedge funds doing the 
of note. The first one is the high costs 
most on ESG tend to be those with the 
involved in implementing ESG across the 
most operational resources. Alongside, 
organization. These costs can be broken 
however, new firms are also emerging 
down across several areas: investments 
that specialize in ESG.
in talent (hiring ESG specialists for the 
investment, research and shareholder  The second challenge cited by about a  3
engagement teams), investments in  quarter of the hedge fund managers we 
data (purchasing datasets and data- surveyed said that ESG was ‘not relevant 
mining technology from third-party  to their strategy or mandate’. They believe 
providers) and investments in marketing  that ESG could lose its materiality powers 
(sponsorships, PR and thought leadership  for trading strategies that rely on short  The rise of  
to build credibility in the market). sustainable 
investing
28 Sustainable investing: fast-forwarding its evolution
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
holding periods or in an asset class like  out by hedge fund managers, except in 
currency that is extensively traded daily. one crucial area: the ‘lack of consensus 
from internal stakeholders‘. While only 
This may be true for high-frequency  The minimum bar for 
9 percent of hedge funds cited this as 
trading strategies, but our interview 
a challenge, a much larger percentage  hedge funds is to have 
research suggests that while a longer 
of investors (23 percent) struggled with 
holding period makes it easier to  a robust ESG policy 
this issue. 
incorporate ESG into the investment 
with buy-in from the 
process, ESG factors could still  This could be explained by the nature of 
potentially generate relevant signals over  most institutional investors, which must  top. ESG should be 
a short time frame, especially as the pace  answer to a wide range of stakeholders 
part of the DNA of the 
of news and the speed of data continues  with potentially diverse needs and 
to increase. objectives. For example, a pension fund  firm. 
1
must meet the needs of its beneficiaries 
d. Investor perspective but is ultimately only answerable to its  An impact investing consultant 
board, which may have widely different 
We also asked institutional investors 
views on ESG. This exact issue played 
to highlight the challenges they faced 
out in 2018 at an American retirement 
in making ESG-oriented investments  Executive 
organization, which elected a new 
in hedge funds. They cited many of  summary
President who took a very different 
the same challenges as hedge fund 
view of sustainability to that of his 
managers, suggesting that there are 
predecessor5. Pension plans with 
common issues across the investment 
low funding levels and fast maturing 
management value chain (Figure 2.5).
liabilities have faced a similar challenge. 
The challenges identified by institutional 
investors are similar to those singled 
Figure 2.5 What are your organization’s biggest challenges in making ESG-oriented investments?
Institutional investors’ survey 22
Lack of quality/consistent sustainability data 49%
Not relevant to our strategy or mandate 38%
Fiduciary concerns 28%
TThhee  rriissee  ooff  EESSGG   
Difficulty in delivering both financial and nonfinancial returns 26% iinn  tthhee  hheeddggee  
ffuunndd  iinndduussttrryy
Lack of consensus from internal stakeholders 23%
Confusion over industry terminology
Lack of quality investment opportunities 18%
Shortage of knowledge or expertise
Political or regulatory uncertainty 10%
Excessive costs associated with incorporating sustainability 8%
3
Source: KPMG–CAIA–AIMA–CREATE Survey 2020
The rise of  
sustainable 
investing
29 Sustainable investing: fast-forwarding its evolution
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
3. Emerging best practice 
Our post-survey interviews identified  is a challenging one to incorporate into 
four sets of practices that could  their funds, just as it is across the entire 
potentially speed up the adoption of  investment management industry. 
ESG and generate improved outcomes 
But, as in all fields of human endeavor, 
for hedge fund managers and their 
the challenges are all surmountable with 
institutional clients alike. 
enough time, patience, persistence and 
diligence.
a. Avoid greenwashing
1
Those firms that fall short of best 
Best practices in the ESG space are 
practices are likely to fall victim to the 
a moving target. Whereas negative 
investment management industry’s new 
screening may have historically been 
‘G’ word — greenwashing. Our research 
the dominant approach, today the bar 
suggests that, as in the long only space, 
is clearly being raised. It’s no longer  Executive 
there is still a greenwashing problem 
enough for a fund manager to just avoid  summary
in the hedge fund industry. However, 
‘sin’ stocks; increasingly, there is now 
institutional investors are getting more 
an expectation that investments should 
savvy in how they approach ESG in 
generate a positive (and measurable) 
their due diligence, duly separating the 
social, environmental or economic impact. 
leaders from the pretenders and the 
This is easier said than done. For many  winners from the spinners. 
hedge fund managers, the idea of ESG 
Figure 2.6  As an institutional investor, do you include ESG considerations as part of 
your due diligence prior to making an allocation to a hedge fund manager?
22
TThhee  rriissee  ooff  EESSGG   
45% iinn  tthhee  hheeddggee  
ffuunndd  iinndduussttrryy
55%
Yes
No 3
Source: KPMG–CAIA–AIMA–CREATE Survey 2020
The rise of  
sustainable 
investing
30 Sustainable investing: fast-forwarding its evolution
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
Indeed, more than half of the  To minimize the problem, hedge 
institutional investors (55 percent)  fund managers are developing the 
reported that they include ESG  necessary practices (Figure 2.7). These 
We’re seeing a 
considerations as part of their due  take into account the fact that investor 
diligence prior to making an allocation  expectations vary when it comes  snowball effect in 
to a hedge fund manager (Figure 2.6). to hedge fund firms practicing ESG 
the hedge fund 
investment. For many investors, this 
However, early indications suggest 
may be as simple as expecting their  industry now 
that investors were concerned 
managers to screen certain assets out 
with what they found, as we saw in  that sustainability 
of their portfolios — particularly those 
Figure 1.7 in the Executive summary. 
assets that might cause the investor  is becoming 
It reported that 41 percent saw a 
reputational harm. Other investors, 
‘significant amount of greenwashing’,  mainstream.
however, may expect a manager to  1
with a further 11 percent reporting 
implement ESG analysis, or even to 
‘some greenwashing’. The remaining  An institutional consultant
measure the environmental footprint of 
48 percent said they were ‘not sure’. 
its investment activities.
Executive 
Figure 2.7 What do institutional investors expect? summary
Investor expectations
Firm has a policy on responsible investment and has thought through the implications 
Policy
thereof for its investment strategy and operations.
Relevant investment staff have been trained in responsible investment; accountability 
Talent
for responsible investment policy does not only sit in compliance/legal.
Firm has a screening policy, and has demonstrably thought through the impact of 
Investment strategy 22
responsible investment and sustainability concerns on its investments.
Firm engages with investee companies where possible, and reports on the outcomes 
Engagement
of those engagements to its investors.
TThhee  rriissee  ooff  EESSGG   
Firm has internal controls to ensure its responsible investment policy is properly 
Reporting iinn  tthhee  hheeddggee  
enacted.
ffuunndd  iinndduussttrryy
Source: KPMG–CAIA–AIMA–CREATE Survey 2020
3
The rise of  
sustainable 
investing
31 Sustainable investing: fast-forwarding its evolution
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
b.  Comply with industry codes  Hence, as they advance into the 
and principles implementation cycle, hedge fund 
managers should consider good 
As mentioned previously, there is  Active ownership 
practices enshrined in the PRI. Currently, 
no one-size-fits-all approach when 
35 percent are already a signatory to  and responsible 
it comes to ESG. This is also true of 
these Principles, and a further 17 percent 
implementation efforts6. stewardship are 
are in the process of becoming a 
ESG is not a race but rather a unique  signatory (Figure 2.8, left-hand panel).  a critical part of 
journey, with unique challenges and 
As for embedding the PRI policies into  sustainability, 
unique opportunities for individual hedge 
the cultural fabric of the firm, 56 percent 
fund managers. It is a journey based  regardless of whether 
of hedge fund managers currently have a 
on experiential learning; questioning 
policy to do so, and a further 36 percent  you are active or 
what works, what doesn’t and why, and  1
are in the process of developing one 
applying the resulting lessons going  passive. 
(Figure 2.8, right-hand panel). This shows 
forward. 
significant progress when compared 
As we saw in Figure 1.3 in the Executive  with a November 2018 Preqin survey  A US quant manager
summary, only 15 percent of hedge fund  on the same question, which found that 
Executive 
managers would define themselves  20 percent of hedge fund managers have 
summary
as being at the ‘mature’ stage of the  an ESG policy in place, 15 percent don’t 
implementation cycle, where ESG  have a policy yet but are working on one, 
is implemented across the firm via  and 65 percent aren’t actively working 
appropriate policies, committees,  towards a policy at all 7.
research and data. The rest of the 
These data invite a caveat, however. As 
managers are either at the ‘in progress’ 
mentioned previously, not all hedge fund 
stage, where implementation is 
strategies are amenable to ESG investing 
piecemeal (44 percent) or the ‘awareness 
and, by extension, to UN PRI.
raising’ stage (31 percent), with the 
remaining 10 percent reporting ‘no 
implementation to date’. 
22
Figure 2.8  Is your organization a current UN PRI signatory? And does your organization currently have an ESG policy or 
statement?
UN PRI signatory ESG policy or statement TThhee  rriissee  ooff  EESSGG   
iinn  tthhee  hheeddggee  
8%
ffuunndd  iinndduussttrryy
35%
48%
36%
3
56%
17%
The rise of  
Yes sustainable 
investing
No, but in the progress of becoming/having one
No, and with no intention in the near future
Source: KPMG–CAIA–AIMA–CREATE Survey 2020
32 Sustainable investing: fast-forwarding its evolution
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
Implementation progress is evident  Where the PRI are less relevant, the 
with regard to those that are, in order to  industry needs to work together to 
enhance the credibility, authenticity and  create a set of its own harmonized 
Integrity is critical. 
transparency required by institutional  principles.
investors (case study 2D).  If you’re going 
to call yourself a 
sustainability investor, 
Case study 2D:  it is important to have 
Embedding ESG into corporate DNA
the right processes in 
We look for hedge fund  are willing to ‘walk the walk’  place. 
1
managers that clearly have ESG  of ESG by asking themselves 
in their DNA. We evaluate these  the same sorts of questions  An impact investing consultant 
managers for how well they  that they would ask of portfolio 
integrate it into their research  companies. That means a hedge 
and investment processes,  fund should have a commitment  Executive 
how committed they are to  to employee diversity, equitable  summary
responsible ownership, and  pay, appropriate fees and fund 
the quality of their approach  structures, and strong corporate 
to sustainability data and  governance. If a hedge fund 
nonfinancial reporting. An  truly believes in ESG as part of 
ESG policy is the absolute  its core investment philosophy, 
bare minimum and it is not  then it follows that it should be 
usually enough to earn a  seamlessly integrated across 
recommendation from us.  the organization.
We also want hedge fund  An institutional consultant 22
managers to show that they 
TThhee  rriissee  ooff  EESSGG   
c. Improve ESG reporting at all, as mentioned in the Executive 
iinn  tthhee  hheeddggee  
summary. Of those who do, 11 percent 
Measurement of and reporting on the  ffuunndd  iinndduussttrryy
use customized metrics and 23 percent 
nonfinancial impact of investments 
use PRI, with other standards far behind 
represents the next frontier for ESG 
in terms of adoption.
investing. Investors and regulators are 
increasingly demanding information  Of all the data points we looked at, 
on the nonfinancial performance of  we expect this one to change the 
all investments. In response, there  most year on year. Reporting is no 
has been a growing list of standards,  longer seen as a nice-to-have by most 
frameworks and principles developed to  investors; it has become a must-have. 
create a shared language for investors  While there may not ever be a single 
who wish to report on ESG. While  reporting standard that satisfies a 
3
no single standard has emerged as  range of conditions for different types 
universal, there is an expectation that  of investment strategies, that doesn’t 
best-in-class managers will report using  mean hedge fund managers can get 
one or more of these standards — or  away with no reporting of any kind. 
develop proprietary ones. 
It is essential for them to focus on  The rise of  
When asked what different approaches  reporting what is most material and  sustainable 
were used in their ESG reporting, more  relevant to a particular strategy. There are  investing
than half (57 percent) of the surveyed  plenty of tools available that can be used to 
hedge fund managers said they do not  come up with standardized reports or feed 
currently report on ESG performance  into a customized reporting mechanism.
33 Sustainable investing: fast-forwarding its evolution
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
d. P  ublish the outcomes of  used, owing in part to how resource 
shareholder engagement  intensive activist battles can become. 
On the other hand, collaboration with 
The final area to improve current  Sustainability is a 
other managers and external networks 
practices is shareholder engagement. It’s 
is on the rise (case study 2E).  great opportunity 
not enough to just invest in ESG-friendly 
securities; hedge fund managers must  Hedge funds are ideally suited for  for hedge funds to 
also engage with the underlying portfolio  activism that targets companies 
rebrand and show 
companies and make the case for  underperforming on ESG issues. Our 
improving their ESG outcomes. Indeed,  interviews show that there is a return  their commitment 
this is, in fact, already being done in  premium in helping an ESG laggard to 
to inclusivity and 
significant numbers (Figure 2.9).  become a leader. It also shows that 
responsible ownership is an important  sustainability. 
The most dominant approach to  1
part of the ESG toolkit and must be 
shareholder engagement is also the 
taken seriously.  An institutional consultant
most opaque: nearly three-quarters of 
managers (74 percent) said they privately  Above all, the outcomes of all 
engaged with companies on ESG issues,  engagements must be transparently 
compared with 25 percent of managers  conveyed to end-investors. Except for  Executive 
who engage publicly and 34 percent who  high-profile proxy fights, end-investors do  summary
vote their proxies. But the most active  not as yet have a clear idea on what value 
form of engagement — proxy fights or  is generated by engagement activities 
activist battles (6 percent) — were rarely  due to this lack of transparent reporting. 
Figure 2.9  What approach does your organization bring to shareholder engagement 
when it comes to ESG?
74%
22
TThhee  rriissee  ooff  EESSGG   
iinn  tthhee  hheeddggee  
34% ffuunndd  iinndduussttrryy
25%
15%
13%
6%
Private Proxy voting Public Shorting Divestment Proxy fights or 3
engagement engagement activist battles
on ESG issues on ESG issues
Source: KPMG–CAIA–AIMA–CREATE Survey 2020
The rise of  
sustainable 
investing
34 Sustainable investing: fast-forwarding its evolution
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
Case study 2E: 
Progress requires collaboration
Adopting best practice can  Investors Group on Climate  Companies are learning too, 
be rather expensive for some  Change.  and they want to work with their 
fund managers, especially  shareholders to understand 
We think this is best practice 
when it comes to shareholder  what investors are looking for 
for other smaller or mid-sized 
engagement. We know that  on ESG. It’s become much more 
managers that want to engage 
we’re too small to gain much  of a dialogue or conversation. 
on ESG issues but don’t have 
traction on our own, so we look  Not all engagements have to 
the right expertise or resources. 
1
for opportunities to collaborate  be combative. Indeed, the best 
Engagement looks different 
with other asset managers  conversations are discreet and 
depending on the company, 
through organizations and  behind closed doors.
jurisdiction and culture, so there’s 
initiatives like Climate Action 
no one-size-fits-all approach. A boutique ESG manager
100+, Ceres and the Institutional  Executive 
summary
Best practice in the years ahead We may also see hedge funds 
and long only managers exploring 
What may seem like a non-starter today 
innovative lock-up structures that would 
could easily emerge as best practice 
allow them to tie up investor capital 
over the next few years. That is why 
for prolonged engagement campaigns 
one area that bears watching is a better 
or specific thematic investments. 
alignment of interests via fee and 
Since most research suggests that 
incentive structures that reward hedge 
ESG factors become more material 
funds for both financial and nonfinancial 
over longer-term horizons, it would 
performance. While such fee structures  22
make sense for fund managers and 
are still in their infancy, hedge funds 
investors to mutually agree on seeing 
that show a clear alignment of interests 
an investment through to its natural 
when it comes to ESG — especially in 
conclusion, even if it takes years.
their remuneration schemes — will have 
a distinct competitive advantage. Some  TThhee  rriissee  ooff  EESSGG   
niche players are already setting the trend. iinn  tthhee  hheeddggee  
ffuunndd  iinndduussttrryy
To conclude, therefore, on ESG, hedge fund managers are moving 
up the implementation ladder. 
They must also embrace best practice and take control of their 
own narratives — proactively making the case for how and 
why ESG is material to their strategies rather than passively 
reacting to external demands — whether those demands come 
from investors, consultants, policymakers, regulators or even 
3
employees.
The rise of  
sustainable 
investing
35 Sustainable investing: fast-forwarding its evolution
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
The rise of sustainable 
3
investing 
What lessons can be learned from early adopters? 
1
Executive 
summary
2
The rise of ESG  
in the hedge 
fund industry
33
TThhee  rriissee  ooff    
ssuussttaaiinnaabbllee  
iinnvveessttiinngg
36 Sustainable investing: fast-forwarding its evolution
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
Sustainability is evolutionary in nature but revolutionary in potential. It envisions a key role for capital 
markets — alongside governments, consumers and green technology. Neither capital markets nor 
individual countries alone can deliver results. Transnational co-operation is essential. 
Sustainability is set to reshape the ecosystem of capital markets and the behaviors of their participants. 
It requires mindset shifts as much as physical changes from the way investing has been done 
historically. 
Barriers persist. Creating the necessary infrastructure of data, skills and technology is proving 
challenging. Progress has been exponential but the task remains huge. Pragmatism has been all too 
evident. Future demand prospects look promising. Regulatory pull remains strong. Early results are 
1
encouraging.
Future success critically hinges on three factors: a new model of shareholder engagement that 
enjoins investors to go from distant owners to vocal change agents; savvy implementation of 
Executive 
sustainability into investment portfolios; and business leadership that is keen to capitalize on the 
summary
opportunities arising from the transition.
This section presents the results of a  A. What is the current state of progress 
stand-alone interview survey, which  in the adoption of sustainable investing? 
involved large institutional investors, 
B. Why is sustainability facing  Markets usually price 
alternative investment managers and 
headwinds from different sources? 
global asset managers who are early  in inflection points 
adopters of sustainable investing, as  C. What best practice is being 
when they are in the 
defined in the introduction to Section 1.  developed by these global players to 
The survey aimed to shed light on three  overcome these challenges?  rearview mirror. 
key issues:
Each issue is covered in the three  2
A Canadian pension plan 
subsections below. 
The rise of ESG  
in the hedge 
fund industry
33
TThhee  rriissee  ooff    
ssuussttaaiinnaabbllee  
iinnvveessttiinngg
3377 SSuussttaaiinnaabbllee  iinnvveessttiinngg::  ffaasstt -ffoorrwwaarrddiinngg  iittss  eevvoolluuttiioonn 
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
1.  Progress along the Spectrum of Capital
a. Adoption so far financial and nonfinancial goals targeted 
by investors as they advance in different 
Currently, there are over 80 different 
stages. These two sets of goals are 
terms used to describe a mind-boggling 
accorded separate and varying weights 
array of approaches that have emerged 
in investor portfolios, as they progress 
under the umbrella of ‘sustainable 
from left to right in the figure. 
investing’. 
The term 'sustainability' is used broadly to 
To chart the way forward, many early 
1
describe the journey along this spectrum. 
adopters in our interview survey for 
this section use the schematic entitled  In the last decade, the journey mostly 
the ‘Spectrum of Capital’, which was  involved the exclusion of ‘sin’ stocks: 
developed by The Impact Management  shares in companies associated with 
Project8, as shown in Figure 3.1.  activities deemed unethical — like 
Executive 
tobacco, weapons, fossil fuels, abuse of 
It envisions sustainability as a  summary
human rights and poor labor standards. 
progressive journey that focuses on the 
Figure 3.1 The Spectrum of Capital
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
Investment
Traditional Responsible Sustainable Impact-driven Philanthropy
approach
Financial  Deliver competitive risk-adjusted financial returns Tolerate Tolerate below Partial capital Accept full loss
goals higher risk market returns preservation of capital 2
Avoid harm and mitigate ESG risks
Benefit all stakeholders
The rise of ESG  
Contribute to solutions
in the hedge 
Don’t  Avoid harm;  Benefit  Contribute to solutions; have a  fund industry
consider; may  try to prevent  effect; material effect on important 
have  significant  important  positive outcomes for 
Impact
significant  effects on  positive  underserved people or the 
goals negative  important  outcomes for  planet
outcomes for  negative  various 
people and  outcomes for  people and 
the planet people and  the planet 
the planet
33
Source: The rise of impact — five steps towards an inclusive and sustainable economy; UK National Advisory Board on impact investing 2017 & Impact Management Project 2017
TThhee  rriissee  ooff    
ssuussttaaiinnaabbllee  
iinnvveessttiinngg
38 Sustainable investing: fast-forwarding its evolution
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
The process of negative screening  The ambition envisions a significant 
narrowed the investment universe  role for asset managers in its delivery. 
somewhat and reduced the scope  It also envisions intergovernmental 
With governments, 
for diversification. Thus, exclusion  co-operation on a scale far bigger 
and diversification were not always  than now. Acting alone, neither asset  regulators, asset 
compatible.  managers nor individual nations can 
owners and asset 
make a big impact.
Hence, most of the large institutional 
managers seeming 
investors have been advancing towards 
b. Root causes of the problem
the right end of the Spectrum into illiquid  to pull in the same 
markets — infrastructure, private equity  The central thrust of the emerging 
direction, it is hard 
and private debt — to target societal  policy framework is directed at one 
as well as financial impacts, while still  overriding aim: to tackle negative  to believe that we are 
1
generating market-rate returns (Levels  externalities resulting from those 
not in the midst of 
4–5). In part, this is because these asset  day-to-day corporate activities that inflict 
classes have customized vehicles of  uncompensated costs on wider society. something profound.
much longer duration with clear metrics 
They include environmental damage, 
and monitoring.  governance lapses, poor labor practices,  A Danish pension plan Executive 
In contrast, in public markets, the same  stagnant incomes, the hollowing out of  summary
investors’ interest in sustainability has  the middle class and rising inequalities.
largely progressed to Levels 2–3 due to 
These have ignited a powder keg of 
a variety of challenges, such as the lack 
resentment in the West and fueled the 
of reliable data on sustainability issues, 
rise of populism. 
as we shall see below. 
Markets have been slow to fully price in 
There are regional differences, of 
these risks — especially climate risk — 
course. Overall, in all asset classes, 
while quarterly capitalism continues 
Europe leads the pack, followed by the 
to retain a decisive influence. Under 
US and then Asia Pacific. 
it, investors are overly influenced by 
These regional differences reflect  quarterly earnings.
2
the stance of public policy and 
Over time, sustainability will likely have 
regulatory responses, as well as 
a growing impact on company valuation 
cultural differences. These are well 
and cost of capital. Thus, by not acting 
documented9. Among them, far and 
to future-proof their businesses now, 
away the most ambitious program 
many listed and private companies  The rise of ESG  
promoting sustainable investing has 
risk harming the interests of their  in the hedge 
been enshrined in the EU's Action Plan: 
shareholders as well as those of wider  fund industry
Financing Sustainable Growth. 
society, not to mention their own 
Most importantly, the EU Council of  long-term financial viability. This much 
Ministers has recently committed  was clear from our interviews. 
to convert its Green Deal into law by 
March 2020, which envisions the EU 
achieving carbon neutrality by 2050 
in line with the Paris Agreement. 
33
TThhee  rriissee  ooff    
ssuussttaaiinnaabbllee  
iinnvveessttiinngg
39 Sustainable investing: fast-forwarding its evolution
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
Thus, sustainable investing is first  focus narrowly on shareholders and 
and foremost about future-proofing  their financial interests.
businesses against secular forces that 
Of course, capital markets alone cannot  Sustainability is the 
can cause existential threats, while 
tackle the negative externalities: in 
generating positive spin-offs for the  biggest leadership 
the area of global warming especially, 
wider society (case study 3A).
intergovernmental co-operation is  challenge of our age. 
Hence, in their role as allocators of  vital. But markets are viewed as the 
Leaders can make a 
finance, capital markets are viewed  strongest link in a mutually reinforcing 
as an essential bridgehead to a more  chain involving three other sets of  huge difference. 
purposive capitalism, as institutional  partners: governments, using their 
investors seek to future-proof their own  supportive tax and trade policies;  A Canadian asset manager 
portfolios against the looming risks in  technology, delivering innovations 
1
the separate areas of environment,  in cost-effective green energy; and 
social and governance. The fiduciary  consumers, favoring pro-sustainability 
responsibility currently enshrined in  products. 
their articles of memorandum tend to 
Executive 
summary
Case study 3A: 
Sustainability is a leadership issue
Our sustainability initiative  their own sustainability, so as  competencies, our business 
started some 15 years ago,  to deliver decent risk-adjusted  behaviors, our talent pool, and 
with a sole focus on ethics:  returns. our systems and processes. 
We screened out shares in 
Our initial forays into ethical  Our sustainability DNA has 
companies associated with 
funds were not successful  reoriented our business to ‘do 
activities deemed undesirable  2
because dumping ‘sin’ stocks  good and do well’ by continuous 
like weapons, fossil fuels, 
yielded handsome profits to  improvements in our capabilities 
tobacco and human  
those who bought them. All that  and track record over time. 
rights abuses. 
happened was a change in share 
Around 80 percent of our assets 
Not only were these activities  ownership.  The rise of ESG  
now cover sustainability funds of 
morally wrong in themselves,  in the hedge 
Markets had not woken up to  one variety or another. Of these, 
fund industry
but they also imposed negative 
the fact that investors were  around a third rely on specific 
externalities — uncompensated 
expressing their personal values  ESG themes that target financial 
costs — on the whole of society, 
via investment choices.  and nonfinancial outcomes. Our 
hurting future growth and 
total assets under management 
prosperity.  As CEO of the company, I 
has doubled in the last 5 years.
persuaded my colleagues that, 
Our belief was that the rise 
as a mid-sized player, we could  Our people are excited to work 
of sustainability would, over 
only differentiate ourselves by  for us because they believe in 
time, change the ecosystem 
pioneering sustainability at the  our core value that finance has to 
of markets that had long relied  33
heart of our business model.  give something back to society 
primarily on financial metrics to 
as well as making a profit. 
value individual companies.  We have evolved a culture that 
links it to our core business  A Benelux asset manager
Hence, we focused on 
values, our leadership 
companies that were enhancing  TThhee  rriissee  ooff    
ssuussttaaiinnaabbllee  
iinnvveessttiinngg
40 Sustainable investing: fast-forwarding its evolution
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
c. Setting the tone at the top Leaders must question the purpose of  governance can also translate into lower 
a modern corporation in order to give it  overall corporate risk, as governance 
This laudable aim marks a sea change 
better social expression. They must set  can set standards for environmental and 
from the traditional way of investing, 
the tone and lead by example, as they  social goals. This is especially the case in 
which has long targeted risk-adjusted 
face what is veritably a new foundational  emerging markets (case study 3B). 
returns, assessed mostly on financial 
trend that is reshaping investing as we 
criteria.  There, transparency is a big slow 
know it today. 
burn issue because of the unique 
For individual asset managers, the 
But, as case study 3A shows, it’s  concentration of corporate ownership 
implied shift has huge implications in 
the long haul that requires vision,  in the hands of individual families or 
a number of areas in the value chain: 
passion and persistence. Transition  government bodies; further complicated 
research, investment process, stock 
to a low-carbon future is likely to have  by a myriad of cross-shareholdings 
selection, portfolio construction, talent 
a jagged trajectory owing to various  that often compromise the interests of 
pool, staff incentives, fund pricing,  1
barriers.  minority shareholders. 
distribution, client engagement, and 
performance reporting. Second, sustainability investing 
is primarily driven by institutional 
It all adds up to combining the best 
investors. Worldwide, total sustainable 
of old and new in order to re-anchor 
investing assets under management  Executive 
markets in the transition to a 
was more than US$30 trillion in  summary
low-carbon future. 
2018, representing around a third of 
In this context, our discussion with  the investment universe, according 
early adopters identified two related  to recent estimates10. It has been 
salient points.  influenced by a large body of trans-
Atlantic research that shows that 
First, sustainable investing is essentially 
sustainable investing works2.  Rising short-termism 
a leadership issue. It requires a strong 
belief that the old ways of investing that  As for emerging markets, data are  has turned investing 
ignore negative externalities are self- sparse. But significant changes are 
into a game of chasing 
defeating: they will increasingly harm  afoot on the corporate governance side, 
shareholders and society over time,  which is vital for the efficient allocation  the next rainbow. 
while undermining the role of markets in  of capital that delivers long-term growth  2
the efficient allocation of capital.  and sustainability. Good corporate  A UK asset manager 
The rise of ESG  
in the hedge 
fund industry
33
TThhee  rriissee  ooff    
ssuussttaaiinnaabbllee  
iinnvveessttiinngg
4411 SSuussttaaiinnaabbllee  iinnvveessttiinngg::  ffaasstt -ffoorrwwaarrddiinngg  iittss  eevvoolluuttiioonn 
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
Case study 3B: 
Emerging markets face a stiff test
Over the past 40 years, breakneck  Internal systems and controls  To reinforce these requirements, 
industrialization has lifted over  that help the board to effectively  index providers are also 
750 million people out of poverty  incentivize and monitor  increasingly demanding 
in emerging markets (EMs). management in the best  accessibility, efficiency and 
interests of shareholders and  transparency of capital markets 
But as an unintended 
wider society are not so well  in emerging economies, all 
consequence, environmental, 
developed — as of yet.  of which requires a robust  1
governance and social issues 
regulatory framework. 
have been seen as the  Lately, however, with the 
responsibility of governments,  worldwide rise in passive  Such efforts reinforce what 
not companies.  investing, a big positive push  many regulators worldwide 
has come from many large listed  are trying to do in earnest:  Executive 
However, corporate governance 
companies, as they up their  reorient markets towards  summary
has come under the spotlight, 
governance game to qualify for  sustainability risks. 
especially as EMs' share 
entry into major EMs' indexes. 
of global stock market  As in developed markets, so 
capitalization has more than  A majority-independent board,  in EMs, all the moving parts in 
doubled so far in this century to  meritocratic executive incentives,  the sustainability revolution are 
around 30 percent in 2019.  robust capital allocation criteria  pulling in the same direction. 
and an engagement mechanism  Progress is slow but the 
Our experience shows that 
that focuses on reducing financial  direction of travel is clear.
checks and balances between 
and nonfinancial risks — these 
a company’s board, its  A global US asset manager
imperatives have come to the 
management and its shareholders  2
fore, as index funds have taken off. 
are weak in most EMs. 
The rise of ESG  
in the hedge 
fund industry
33
TThhee  rriissee  ooff    
ssuussttaaiinnaabbllee  
iinnvveessttiinngg
42 Sustainable investing: fast-forwarding its evolution
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
2. Factors slowing progress 
Guidelines on how to 
assess what is ‘good’ 
Three sets of barriers were most  Climate Action 100+ and the Impact 
and ‘bad’ are rare. 
frequently cited by early adopters in  Management Project are just two of the 
general and institutional investors  most prominent examples. That apart,  There are no agreed 
in particular.  individual pension plans have been 
definitions.
discouraging activities that promote a 
a.  Coping with shorter  quick-buck mentality. Other asset owners 
investment horizon have been petitioning regulators to codify  A US asset manager 
rules on sustainability disclosure to 
Over the past 20 years, what has passed  1
promote long-term investing.
for active asset management has 
largely been the second-order trading  The foundational short-term problem is 
of existing assets, the main focus being  not that stock market pressure dislodges 
trying to anticipate the behaviors of  firms from the right technological path, 
other investors.  but that it forces faster and deeper  Executive 
change than before, which induces  summary
Under this argument, some institutional 
a negative reaction in corporate, 
investors suggest that financial markets 
employment, judicial, and political circles. 
are no longer a conduit between savers 
More people feel vulnerable. Sharper 
planning for a decent retirement nest 
technological shifts and enhanced global 
egg and borrowers deploying their 
competition are the cause; stock markets 
savings to create wealth, jobs, skills 
are the messenger. 
and prosperity. 
ii. Regulators flexing their muscles 
i. Trading vs. investing 
For their part, regulators, too, have been 
The result of this, as per the view of 
responding. 
some investors, has been shorter time 
horizons, unrealistic expectations, more  The EU’s Second Shareholder Rights  2
momentum trading, a higher velocity  Directive, effective from June 2019, 
of trades and the constant search for  sets out to remedy the situation by 
hot products. Long-term investing has  strengthening the role of shareholders, 
come to be full of opacity, such that  enjoining them to act like active 
commitment to it exists at the outset  owners, rather than distant holders  The rise of ESG  
until investors resolve is tested by time  of paper assets; and demanding  in the hedge 
and events. commitment to sustainability in  fund industry
reporting requirements. Similar aims 
A decade of zero-bound interest rates 
are deeply embedded in the latest 
has enabled companies on both sides 
governance codes in Japan and the UK. 
of the Atlantic to inflate their share 
prices via borrowings that have mostly  Indeed, the regulatory tempo has 
gone into stock buy-backs and outsized  increased. Over 500 separate measures 
dividends. As per the view of some  have been enacted worldwide in the last 
investors, companies seem to have  decade, according to the PRI responsible 
been under pressure to distribute cash  investment regulation database. 
to shareholders rather than invest it 
Among others, these rules and 
to improve their long-term prospects,  33
regulations seek to escalate new 
resulting in lower growth in the future.
disclosure requirements from 
Such practices haven’t gone unnoticed.  companies, securities issuers, asset 
Large institutional investors with  owners and asset managers. They also 
liabilities stretching out over decades  enhance the definition of the fiduciary 
TThhee  rriissee  ooff    
have been their most vocal critics. They  duty of a pension plan to include societal 
ssuussttaaiinnaabbllee  
are forming coalitions that promote  considerations. In the past, its focus 
iinnvveessttiinngg
climate action and better sustainability  was solely to maximize the financial 
methodology by, amongst other things,  gains that can provide a regular decent 
fostering long-term investing. retirement income for their members. 
43 Sustainable investing: fast-forwarding its evolution
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
b.  Climbing a steep learning  Learning-by-doing remains the principal 
curve  vehicle for climbing what looks like a steep 
learning curve. 
Another key barrier is data challenges.  Materiality is 
At the heart of sustainability sit three  i. Heart of the matter
hard to ascertain 
foundational concepts that have proved 
The crux of the problem is that there 
hard to quantify: materiality, intentionality  with the current 
is no universal acceptance of what a 
and additionality (case study 3C). 
‘good’ company is in practice. With rare  generation of data. 
Respectively, they seek to assess how  exceptions, therefore, governments do 
We are forced to 
material sustainability factors are to a  not mandate companies to provide data 
company’s financial performance and the  on the aspects that matter for sustainable  make judgment 
risks that can affect it; does the company  investing. 
calls. 
really intend to act on them and ‘do good’  1
Article 173 in the French 2017 transition 
via its products, services and interactions 
with wider society; and does it generate  law broke the mold by requiring  A Dutch asset manager 
mandatory carbon reporting for listed 
societal benefits in addition to financial 
companies as well as pension investors. 
benefits? 
Other EU jurisdictions have followed suit. 
Executive 
So far, each of these areas have relied on 
summary
blending existing data with judgment calls. 
Case study 3C: 
The Achilles' heel of sustainability
Far and away the biggest barrier  typically have better disclosure  selection. The data are updated 
to sustainability investing so far  procedures than the rest. The rise  annually so it is hard to assess 
has been the lack of a robust  of big data has been a major boost  progress on sustainability scores  2
template with consistent  for all data vendors.  more frequently. 
definitions and reliable data on 
But information challenges persist  For now, we are making do 
how companies score on various 
on three of the most pertinent  with what data we have. Our 
sustainability factors. 
issues for investors: materiality,  experience shows that it is not the  The rise of ESG  
Worldwide, there are over 150  intentionality and additionality.  sustainability scores themselves,  in the hedge 
fund industry
major data vendors, each with  but the rate of change in them — in 
It is hard to ascertain these issues 
their own proprietary definitions  either direction — that moves their 
because most of the data are 
and data sources.  share prices. 
self-reported, raising questions 
The result is that companies in  about reliability and consistency.  Markets seem to have rewarded 
the same investment universe  The implied volunteerism has given  those who have improved their 
end up with radically different  rise to whitewashing on the part of  game the most, including carbon 
scores from different vendors. corporates: selective focus on good  polluters. 
scores and ignoring the rest. 
But we are a long way from  A key contributory factor is the 
33
having real-time reliable data that  Their coverage is mostly limited  media publicity generated by 
can enhance market depth in  to this decade such that their  shareholder engagement with 
sustainable funds.  time series are not long enough  the companies involved. 
to facilitate statistical modeling 
Data coverage, on the whole, is  A Dutch pension plan
that typically underpins asset  TThhee  rriissee  ooff    
far better for larger companies that 
ssuussttaaiinnaabbllee  
iinnvveessttiinngg
44 Sustainable investing: fast-forwarding its evolution
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
Even so, four problems persist in all  Similarly, when it comes to ESG 
fund jurisdictions.  investing, it is unclear how much weight 
should be accorded to each of the three 
First, currently, there is no universally  Engagement will 
disparate components, without invoking 
agreed upon terminology that can help 
value judgments.  become the alpha 
to create a common language and 
mental models about sustainability at  Finally, in the area of climate change,  behind alpha. 
a statistical level. Trade associations  two data challenges have proved 
and advocacy groups worldwide are  daunting. One is having to factor in  A German asset manager
collaborating extensively to bridge the  physical risks like forest fires and rising 
gap. sea levels that are hard to predict. 
The other challenge is to measure a 
Climate change, being an inexact 
company's carbon footprint, which 
science from an investor perspective,  1
is defined to include emissions 
presents formidable challenges in 
from its own operations as much as 
measuring the carbon footprints of 
emissions from its supply chain at the 
companies. The task of establishing 
upstream end and its customers at the 
a clear line of sight between climate 
downstream end. 
change and investment outcomes is  Executive 
fraught with as many unknowables as  Yet, these problems have not detracted  summary
unknowns.  from two parallel developments, 
according to the participants in our 
Second, getting consistent data on 
interview survey. 
sustainability scores and performance 
measures remains a difficult task  ii. Winds of change
even with the presence of more than 
The first one is that we are indeed 
150 major data vendors, each with 
witnessing the emergence of a new 
their own proprietary definitions 
infrastructure of data, skills and 
and methodologies on materiality, 
technology on the ground. Data vendors 
intentionality and additionality. In the 
are experiencing rapid consolidation. The 
absence of a standardized format, 
rise of big data and machine learning 
the result is often a radically different  2
is improving the quality and timeliness 
assessment of the same company 
of the information. Progress may not 
from different sources. The problem is 
be enough but it remains exponential. 
compounded by the fact that most of the 
For example, the Impact Management 
required data is self-reported, selectively 
Project alone has involved over 2,000 
focusing on good news and filtering out  The rise of ESG  
investment practitioners globally on 
bad. As a result, many asset owners  in the hedge 
how to measure, report, compare and 
prefer to pursue sustainability via passive  fund industry
improve impact performance. 
funds that require least governance 
oversight and data demands on them.  Second, for smart investors, the 
identified problems give rise to all 
Third, when it comes to avoiding ‘sin’ 
manner of informational inefficiencies 
stocks, it is unclear at what threshold a 
in financial markets. As such, they 
company is to be classified as ‘bad’. For 
are nothing more than concealed 
example, many conglomerates have a 
opportunities to generate alpha for those 
small exposure to defense weapons. 
who are progressing fast up the learning 
Any ceiling is bound to be arbitrary11. 
curve. 
33
TThhee  rriissee  ooff    
ssuussttaaiinnaabbllee  
iinnvveessttiinngg
45 Sustainable investing: fast-forwarding its evolution
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
c. Partial evidence of success factor in Europe but probably less so in 
America or Asia Pacific (case study 3D). 
With ever more money flowing into 
sustainable investing, a big question has  Regionally, the environmental aspect 
come to the fore: Is sustainability a risk  was most evident in asset valuation in 
factor? Our interviews identified two  the US during 2014–17 but has since 
groups: believers and pragmatists.  turned negligible12. 
i. Believers
Believers argued that it is — but with 
one difference. It is a compensated 
1
Case study 3D: 
Is sustainability a risk factor?
Executive 
summary
The rise of sustainability has  more data have emerged to  century as well as related high-
naturally raised the question: Is  confirm their validity. profile corporate disasters — like 
it a risk factor — on top of the  the recent abrupt bankruptcy 
In contrast, being a relatively 
traditional ones like value, quality,  of Pacific Gas and Electric 
new phenomenon, sustainability 
low variance, size and momentum?  Company. 
lacks the database to underpin 
The main problem is that most risk  its status as a risk factor. But that  So, sustainability is gradually 
factors are not readily observable.  does not make it unimportant.  transitioning from being an 
So, our portfolio managers are  uncompensated risk factor to a 
First, there is a concerted 
forced to use their proxies.  compensated one.
regulatory push towards 
2
For example, value factor is   sustainability, as investors have  Third, our own research shows 
associated with cheap stocks.  earmarked some US$30 trillion  that sustainability is correlated 
But the evaluation of ‘cheap’  worldwide towards sustainable  with the traditional quality factor 
relies on metrics such as  investments. It is hard to believe  that relies on proxies that are 
The rise of ESG  
book-to-price or PE ratios.  markets will not take note.  broadly similar. 
in the hedge 
In contrast, as yet, there is no  Second, the history of other  Even so, we use sustainability  fund industry
agreement on the proxy metrics  risk factors shows that, once  as a factor to deliver — at the 
for environment, social and  discovered, they remain  very least — a more defensive 
governance; nor on what weights  uncompensated until they have  portfolio by taking account 
to assign to each of them.  been tried and tested by events.  of long horizon risks that are 
statistically hard to model. 
Traditional risk factors have  We have been witnessing 
gained credence over time as  dramatic climate events in this  A global French asset manager
33
TThhee  rriissee  ooff    
ssuussttaaiinnaabbllee  
iinnvveessttiinngg
46 Sustainable investing: fast-forwarding its evolution
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
Overall, governments and consumers  downside protection and much lower  Hence, they need evidence that 
in Europe have become stronger  drawdowns in the pronounced risk-on/ something has worked well in the 
supporters of sustainability, especially  risk-off cycles of the last decade.  past within a replicable investment 
after the 2015 Paris conference, which  In other words, sustainability has  process, backed by a clear thesis. 
attracted widespread attention in the  so far already proved a good capital  For many of them, sustainability is a 
mass media.  conservation strategy in periods of  nascent phenomenon. They remain to 
volatility.  be convinced about its upsides. After 
Unsurprisingly, five European 
all, their own incentives favor consistent 
countries have made most progress in  ii. Pragmatists
returns year on year. 
implementing carbon pricing, according 
On the other hand, pragmatists argued 
to the latest OECD data. They are 
that, for any return driver to be treated as 
Switzerland, France, the UK, Italy and 
a risk factor, it needs a long performance 
Germany. Capital markets have duly 
history over multiple cycles in multiple  11
noted. 
regions. So far, data on sustainability 
Unless asset 
Believers cited two other arguments. To  have been sparse, covered a short 
start with, their own analysis shows that  time horizon and been beset by various  managers act like 
sustainability has been a factor overall  caveats. This relative sparsity of data 
active owners on our 
in this decade. But the time period for  creates problems for many among the  EExxeeccuuttiivvee  
environmental, social and governance  current generation of research analysts  behalf, sustainable  ssuummmmaarryy
components has varied: they have not  and portfolio managers. They are trained 
investing will not meet 
moved in tandem. This argues for a  skeptics: Their craft blends data with 
more granular approach when assessing  personal judgment — cultivated over  our expectations. 
sustainability as a risk factor.  years of chasing financial returns via in-
depth research. For them, investing is a 
Furthermore, together, these three  A Hong Kong institutional 
bet on an unknown future. 
components have served to provide  investor 
22
TThhee  rriissee  ooff  EESSGG    
iinn  tthhee  hheeddggee  
ffuunndd  iinndduussttrryy
33
TThhee  rriissee  ooff    
ssuussttaaiinnaabbllee  
iinnvveessttiinngg
47 Sustainable investing: fast-forwarding its evolution
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
3. Developing best practice
The challenges outlined above — namely,  data about a company from a diverse set 
short-termism, data shortcomings and  of sources with information emerging 
lack of robust impact evidence — have  from direct engagement with it as 
Our neglect of 
only intensified efforts to develop  shown in Figure 3.2. 
practical solutions. Two areas have been  socio-environmental 
Notably, some pension plans see 
prioritized: active ownership and smarter 
engagement as a source of what they  issues will shock 
implementation, as described separately 
call ‘structural capital’: knowledge about 
below.  future generations,  1
how sustainability is playing out on the 
ground and where alpha opportunities  just as our 
a. Active Ownership 2.0
are likely to arise, as companies improve 
predecessors’ 
It is now widely accepted that  their sustainability credentials. After 
sustainability best practice involves  all, it is widely accepted that it is the  neglect of slavery 
enriching the current infrastructure  increase in sustainability score — rather  Executive 
shocks us today. 
of data, skills and technology with  than absolute levels — that drives  summary
shareholder activism that targets real- performance.  The aim is to identify 
world outcomes at scale. companies, via engagement, with a  A French institutional investor
virtuous trajectory, as opposed to those 
Its principal instrument is direct 
exposed to controversy. 
engagement with investee companies 
that seeks to understand the reality on  i. Pragmatism presides
the ground and be a change agent in 
In this context, investors face two choices: 
reshaping it for the better. More than 
divest or engage. 
that, it’s about gaining an informational 
edge via positive feedback loops in  The former is appealingly simple: Cut off 
which ideas beget ideas and information  the flow of funds to society’s corporate 
begets information. Such loops blend  ‘villains’ and they will collapse from capital  2
Figure 3.2 Active ESG
The rise of ESG  
Big d a t a advanced analytics fiunn tdh ein hdeudsgtrey 
Di
r
a e
t c
a t
d  e
y  ng
rt Company a
a g
p e
- m
d
ri ne
h t
T
m
o
Corporate disclo s ure ﬁts fr 33
e
n
e
B
Evolving methodology
TThhee  rriissee  ooff    
ssuussttaaiinnaabbllee  
Portfolio
iinnvveessttiinngg
Source: Neuberger Berman, 2019
48 Sustainable investing: fast-forwarding its evolution
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
starvation and sacrifice the diversification  engagement with investee companies — 
benefits as a trade-off.  often in collaboration with other investors 
to exercise maximum leverage. It is based 
Instead, there is growing preference for  The days when 
on the belief that those who are part of the 
a pragmatic ‘carrot and stick’ approach. 
problem can also be part of the solution.  stewardship was a 
Selling ‘sin’ stocks, for example, to others 
without similar concerns often ends up  Engagement can be an intensive  box-ticking exercise 
with the latter buying shares at less than  drawn-out process. But if all else fails, 
using a boilerplate 
the prevailing market price and pocketing  then our interviewees have been unafraid 
the profits; while the business models of  to exercise the nuclear option: divestment. narrative are gone. We 
the villains remain unchanged. 
In sum, data provide the breadth of  are mandated to be 
Besides, when it comes to fossil fuel  information, engagement provides the 
agents of change.
companies, voting with your feet does  depth. Together, they make a powerful  1
not work, since most of them now sit on  combination as investors and their asset 
A UK pension plan
a large free cash flow, with much less  managers progress up the learning curve, 
reliance on capital markets. via collaboration with their peers within 
various global networks (case study 3E). 
Hence, the more effective channel for 
Executive 
changing corporate behaviors is direct 
summary
Case study 3E: 
An owner, not a trader
Engagement is not a ‘once and  We are also demanding  Standards Board, and Climate 
done’ exercise but a long haul.  regular reporting on various  Action 100+. 
It seeks to wean investors off  governance aspects such as 
The UK Stewardship Code, hailed 
a deeply ingrained addiction to  board independence, executive 
as one of the best globally, is 
quarterly numbers.  compensation, risk dashboard,  2
being refined this year. 
employment practices, gender 
Our research shows that, on a 
diversity and community-related  The previous one asked for 
5-year view, companies with poor 
activities.  policies, procedures and basic 
sustainability scores have higher 
disclosures from institutional 
idiosyncratic risks and higher  We vote at AGMs and back that up  The rise of ESG  
investors. In contrast, the new 
beta. We have such companies in  with year-round conversations with  in the hedge 
one requires evidence-based 
our portfolio.  top executives, in order to deepen  fund industry
disclosures from us as to how 
our relationships in the targeted 
That leaves us with two choices:  these policies are actually 
companies. In 2019, we engaged 
One is to dump them; another  implemented on the ground. 
with over 800 major companies, 
is to encourage these laggards 
via face-to-face meetings,  More notably, it also enjoins our 
to up their game. We have done 
conference calls and emails.  board and C-suite executives 
both. 
to receive and approve the 
We enhance our leverage 
Principally, we require them to  stewardship reports and put their 
by subscribing to the UK 
use the reporting framework of  money where their mouth is. 
Stewardship Code, the Japanese 
the Task Force on Climate-related  33
Stewardship Code, the US  The new code has shifted 
Financial Disclosures, with a 
Forum for Sustainable and  the burden of proof to us by 
strong focus on carbon footprint 
Responsible Investment, the  mandating us as the agents of 
and the actions taken to reduce it. 
Carbon Disclosure Project,  change. 
TThhee  rriissee  ooff    
the Sustainability Accounting 
A UK pension plan
ssuussttaaiinnaabbllee  
iinnvveessttiinngg
49 Sustainable investing: fast-forwarding its evolution
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
ii. Progress is slow Its own research shows that, for 
pension plans, sustainability capabilities 
In general, though, positive investor 
are the most important factor in 
action is the exception rather than the  Sustainability will have 
manager selection because the majority 
rule so far, according to a recent report 
of plans do not as yet have the requisite  its own version of the 
from the PRI13. Many investors do 
resources. Hence, they tend to rely on 
not — as yet — have policy advocacy  core-satellite model. 
their asset managers to make all the key 
functions that could move the needle on 
decisions on sustainability. 
some of these issues.  A UK asset manger 
So, asset managers should concentrate 
To cynics, therefore, engagement may 
on four areas to achieve best practices in 
smack of box-ticking. Not so, according 
implementation: data, integration, clarity 
to a previous paper from the PRI14. 
and articulation. 
1
Its research shows that engagement 
i. Data 
can and does promote a constructive 
dialogue that facilitates the exchange of  Taking them in turn, the ability to 
information, sets expectations, seeks  measure sustainability impact is central 
specific actions and builds trusting  to its reporting. As regulators in the 
Executive 
relationships on the ground.  West step up their efforts towards 
summary
disclosure guidance in line with the 
It promotes new learning in the belief 
Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
that ideas breed ideas and collaboration 
Disclosure recommendations, asset 
can devise solutions that meet the 
managers should step up pressure for 
requirements of both parties. 
quality improvements in their data supply 
Finally, it navigates internal politics within  chains. 
both parties that have often promoted 
Lack of requisite data remains a 
the box-ticking that has long undermined 
major impediment — what cannot be 
genuine catalysts for change. 
measured cannot be reported. The 
current situation provides ample scope 
b. Smarter implementation
for greenwashing — repurposing of 
2
Templates for improving the  funds to give them a green label as a 
effectiveness of sustainability have  marketing gimmick. It also gives rise to 
been produced by various national and  whitewashing at the investee company 
international bodies.  end — massaging the data to overstate 
improvements. Both are detrimental to 
One that was widely used among  The rise of ESG  
the sustainability brand. Investors are 
our interview survey participants  in the hedge 
especially keen to know how reliable 
was from mallowstreet Insights, a  fund industry
sustainability scores are, how they are 
research center providing pivotal inputs 
changing over time and whether they are 
to pension trustees and their asset 
managers15. reflected in the value of assets they hold. 
33
TThhee  rriissee  ooff    
ssuussttaaiinnaabbllee  
iinnvveessttiinngg
50 Sustainable investing: fast-forwarding its evolution
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
ii. Integration  iii. Clarity 
The second area is integration. Asset  Asset managers should provide 
managers need to have an integrated  explanations at a more granular level  Actions on climate 
approach to sustainable investing,  on how implementation is done at the 
change are no 
embracing at least one of two levels  fund or mandate level. This includes 
that are meaningful to investors:  seven components: the statement  longer equated to 
core and specialist (Figure 3.3). Data  of its investment policy; its link with 
tree-hugging and 
problems dictate pragmatism in the  international standards; the data 
core portfolio by including only those  sources used; their real-time tracking;  back-door socialism. 
securities that rate high on both their  the definitional templates used; 
alpha potential and their sustainability  corporate engagement policy; and  A Swiss institutional investor 
potential in the short and medium term.  resources dedicated to engagement 
1
That way, poor data will not undermine  practices and their outcomes. 
performance, nor will the investment 
Investors are especially keen to know 
time horizon — if the portfolio includes 
that there is a direct line of sight between 
securities currently underpriced on 
sustainability policy and the practices 
both criteria. 
that deliver its impact on the ground. Executive 
On the other hand, investors who wish  summary
iv. Articulation 
to pursue specific sustainable themes 
should have access to thematic funds,  Asset managers should provide 
with longer time horizons and variable  better sustainability articulation in the 
performance. In other words, the core  fixed-income space. Currently, attention 
portfolio should embrace Levels 2 and  is centered on equities where data 
3 in the Spectrum of Capital (Figure 3.1)  availability is less constrained and 
and the specialist should cover  engagement is a lot easier via proxy 
Levels 4–6. Investors are especially  voting, attendance at the AGM and 
keen to see sustainability investing  year-round conversations. In contrast, 
evolve along this dual line.  fixed-income instruments are perceived 
as overly quantitative, relying on interest 
2
rates, inflation, credit quality and 
liquidity risks.
Figure 3.3 How ESG is evolving 
The rise of ESG  
in the hedge 
Core ESG Core–specialist ESG Specialist ESG fund industry
(e.g. Impact, Thematic, Activist, etc.)
— Stronger focus 
—  Seeks stable
on ESG
outperformance
 
— Typically longer 
— Controlled ESG 
CORE ESG   term focus
  exposure
— More variable
— Risk controlled, 
performance  33
diversified   G
Specialist  E S
Source: QMA, 2019 TThhee  rriissee  ooff    
ssuussttaaiinnaabbllee  
iinnvveessttiinngg
51 Sustainable investing: fast-forwarding its evolution
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
There is a perception that lenders do not  As more assets go into sustainability 
have the right to engage because their  funds, a meritocratic fee structure will 
investments come with protections at  have to be the norm in the active space. 
the expense of voting rights. Hence,  In contrast, in passive investing, where 
investors are especially keen to know  price wars have been fierce lately, 
how effective sustainability criteria are  stewardship has to be a key point of 
currently exercised at two stages: the  competition. 
initial screening when the investment 
Furthermore, alignment is no longer just 
is first made and the refinancing stage 
about having fees that offer equitable 
when a bond matures. 
sharing of gain and pain with clients. 
Some asset managers already do this  It is also about having alignment of 
by adopting the approach set out in  investment beliefs and time horizons 
1
Figure 1.9 in the Executive summary.  over which investment goals can 
And the pace is set to accelerate as  materialize. 
more sustainability funds flow into the 
The current approach — often 
fixed income space. 
influenced by herding and past 
In addition to the above four areas,  performance — is fraught with ‘wrong  Executive 
institutional investors in our interview  time’ risk and ‘regret’ risk: Investors buy  summary
survey also identified a fifth one where  high and sell low, only to lament later on. 
the needle needs to shift significantly. Many of them have not been too clear 
about beliefs on which their investments 
v.  Financial and nonfinancial 
are based; nor about the time horizon 
alignment of interests 
over which their goals are expected to 
Worldwide, fee compression is the  materialize. 
norm in the asset industry. It is most 
Accordingly, an essential element of 
evident in new mandates, while 
engagement between asset managers 
legacy assets remain locked into the 
and their clients is to align beliefs 
age-old fixed percentage fee linked 
and time horizons when it comes to 
to assets under management. While 
sustainable investing. Fee structures  2
encouraging asset gathering, this 
are moving in the right direction as 
asymmetric structure rewards asset 
alignment deepens.
managers irrespective of outcomes. It 
also generates windfall gains in rising 
markets as the icing on the cake. 
The rise of ESG  
in the hedge 
fund industry
To conclude, therefore, the challenges identified in this section are 
the teething problems of a better form of investing. 
Sustainability is set to morph into the new gold standard, as our 
societies seek to overcome the side effects of the turbocharged 
capitalism of the past 40 years. 
Before then, sustainability is beset by its own challenges. But early 
movers see it as no more than a concealed opportunity to create 
businesses of enduring value — and profit from them. 
33
Institutional factors are fast driving change. Pragmatism has been 
all too evident, with concerted action now in progress. There is an 
increasing realization that finance must give something back to 
society as well as making profit. Early results are encouraging.
Only responsible ownership and savvy implementation will deliver 
TThhee  rriissee  ooff    
sustainability. They will also differentiate the winners from the losers. 
ssuussttaaiinnaabbllee  
iinnvveessttiinngg
52 Sustainable investing: fast-forwarding its evolution
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
References
1.  Edelman: An overwhelming majority of investors expect companies to implement 
effective envirownmental, social-impact and governance (ESG) practices, 
December 2019.
2.  Gunnar Friede, Timo Busch and Alexander Bassen: ESG and financial performance: 
aggregated evidence from more than 2000 empirical studies, 2015.
1
3.  PRI: What is the inevitable policy response?, 2019.
4.  Carbon tracker initiative: 2 degrees of separation — transition risk for oil and gas in 
a low carbon world, 2017.
5.  Barron’s: ESG investing suffers a setback in California, 2018.
Executive 
6.  PRI: Responsible investment due diligence questionnaire for hedge funds, 2019. summary
7.  Preqin: Will hedge funds ever truly embrace ESG principles? 2019.
8.  Impact Management Project: The rise of impact: five steps towards an inclusive 
and sustainable economy, 2017. 
9.  Aviva investors: Rights and responsibility — Our global responsible investment 
approach, annual review 2018.
10. The global sustainable investment alliance: 2018 global sustainable investment 
review.
11. Man group: ESG integration — No silver bullet, June 2019.
2
12. The Financial Times: Active investing and ESG are a perfect match, November 12, 
2019.
13. PRI: Active ownership 2.0: The evolution stewardship urgently needs, 
November 2019.
The rise of ESG  
14. PRI: How ESG engagement creates value for investors and companies, 2018.
in the hedge 
15. mallowstreet Insights: ESG report, 2019. fund industry
3
The rise of  
sustainable 
investing
53 Sustainable investing: fast-forwarding its evolution
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
Contacts
Regional contacts: 
Andrew Weir  Bonn Liu  David Neuenhaus 
Global Head of   Head of Asset Management   Global Leader 
Asset Management   ASPAC Region  Asset Management Tax 
E: andrew.weir@kpmg.com E: bonn.liu@kpmg.com E: dneuenhaus@kpmg.com 
Greg Williams  Tomas Otterström  John Cho 
1
Head of Asset Management  Global Leader  Global Leader 
North America Region  Sustainable Finance Services  Institutional Investors Group  
E: gregorylwilliams@kpmg.com E: tomas.otterstrom@kpmg.fi E: johncho@kpmg.ca 
Darina Barrett  Jon Mills 
Head of Asset Management  Global Leader  Executive 
EMEA Region  Asset Management Audit  summary
E: darina.barrett@kpmg.ie E: jon.mills@kpmg.co.uk
Linda Elkins  Vivian Chui  David Capocci 
KPMG Australia  KPMG China  KPMG in Luxembourg  
E: lindaelkins@kpmg.com.au E: vivian.chui@kpmg.com  E: david.capocci@kpmg.lu
Simon Townend  Jan Hove  Jeroen Van Nek 
KPMG in the Bahamas  KPMG in Denmark  KPMG in the Netherlands 
E: stownend@kpmg.com.bs E: jahove@kpmg.com E: vannek.jeroen@kpmg.nl
2
Mahesh Balasubramanian  Gerard Gaultry  Andrew Thompson 
KPMG in Bahrain  KPMG in France  KPMG in Singapore 
E: bmahesh@kpmg.com E: ggaultry@kpmg.fr  E: andrewthompson8@kpmg.com.sg
Gary Pickering  Hans Volkert Volckens    Francisco J. Muñoz Neira 
The rise of ESG  
KPMG in Bermuda  KPMG in Germany  KPMG in Spain 
in the hedge 
E: garypickering@kpmg.bm E: hvolckens@kpmg.com E: jmunozneira@kpmg.es
fund industry
Lino Junior  Frank Gannon  Markus Schunk 
KPMG in Brazil   KPMG in Ireland  KPMG in Switzerland 
E: lmjunior@kpmg.com.br  E: fgannon@kpmg.com  E: markusschunk@kpmg.com
Peter Hayes  Russell Kelly  Rachel Hanger 
KPMG in Canada  KPMG in the Isle of Man  KPMG in the UK 
E: phayes@kpmg.ca E: russellkelly@kpmg.co.im E: rachel.hanger@kpmg.co.uk
Anthony Cowell  Giulio Carlo Dell'Amico  Jim Suglia 
KPMG in the Cayman Islands  KPMG in Italy  KPMG in the US 
E: acowell@kpmg.ky  E: gdellamico@kpmg.it  E: jsuglia@kpmg.com
3
Steven Hunt  Ryuichi Murasawa 
KPMG in the Channel Islands  KPMG in Japan 
E: stevenhunt@kpmg.com E: ryuichi.murasawa@jp.kpmg.com
The rise of  
sustainable 
investing
54 Sustainable investing: fast-forwarding its evolution
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”). KPMG International provides no client services and is a Swiss entity with which the independent member firms of the KPMG network are affiliated.
KPMG’s global Asset Management practice offers specialized services to a wide range of 
industry clients at local, national and global levels. Our professionals in Audit, Tax and Advisory 
are specialist in their fields and have deep experience the issues and needs of the investment 
management businesses. KPMG member firms' clients included investment managers, wealth 
managers, family offices, fund administrators and service providers who focus on mutual funds, 
hedge funds, private equity funds, infrastructure funds and real estate funds, and institutional 
investors for pension funds and sovereign wealth funds.
KPMG firms aim to provide you with a tailored service of the highest standard. KPMG member 
firms are focused on exceptional objectives of building trusted relationships and delivering quality 
output through our project teams that can support you from anywhere in the world, whatever your 
investment activity.
create-research.co.uk
CREATE-Research is an independent research boutique specializing in strategic change and the newly 
emerging business models in global asset management. It undertakes major research assignments 
from prominent financial institutions and global companies. It works closely with senior decision 
makers in reputable organizations across Europe and the US. Its work is disseminated through high 
profile reports and events that attract wide attention in the media. Further information can be found at 
create-research.co.uk.
home.kpmg/sustainableinvesting 
home.kpmg/socialmedia
The information contained herein is of a general nature and is not intended to address the circumstances of any particular individual or entity. Although we 
endeavor to provide accurate and timely information, there can be no guarantee that such information is accurate as of the date it is received or that it will continue 
to be accurate in the future. No one should act on such information without appropriate professional advice after a thorough examination of the particular situation.
© 2020 KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), a Swiss entity. Member firms of the KPMG network of independent firms are affiliated with 
KPMG International. KPMG International provides no client services. No member firm has any authority to obligate or bind KPMG International or any other 
member firm vis-à-vis third parties, nor does KPMG International have any such authority to obligate or bind any member firm. All rights reserved. 
The KPMG name and logo are registered trademarks or trademarks of KPMG International.
Designed by Evalueserve. 
Publication name: Sustainable investing: fast forwarding its evolution 
Publication number: 136641-G
Publication date: February 2020