
CLIMATE-RELATED   
RISKS & OPPORTUNITIES
Goldman Sachs 2019 TCFD Report
Goldman Sachs 2019 TCFD Report
CONTENTS
03  INTRODUCTION
04  GOVERNANCE
07  STRATEGY — ADVANCING THE OPPORTUNITY
  07  LEVERAGING THE BREADTH OF OUR BUSINESSES
  09  PUBLIC POLICY AND INDUSTRY ENGAGEMENT
  09  OPERATIONAL BEST PRACTICES
10  RISK MANAGEMENT
  11  CLIMATE-RISK SCENARIO ANALYSIS
  12  COMPREHENSIVE RISK MANAGEMENT APPROACH
14  METRICS AND TARGETS
17  THE PATH FORWARD
2
Goldman Sachs 2019 TCFD Report
Introduction 
At Goldman Sachs, we have long recognized the urgency of climate change and have worked to  
harness market solutions to help address the challenge. We also believe in the importance of 
providing greater transparency on our approach to managing climate-related risks and opportunities 
across our business and operations. 
Our inaugural Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosure (TCFD) Report provides an 
overview of our strategy and approach to climate-related risks and opportunities, including how the 
management and oversight of climate change is integrated across our global business. We also include 
in this report the initial steps we have undertaken on climate risk scenario analysis to understand the 
impacts of both transition risk and physical risk. 
We recognize that climate change is highly complex and that it is inherently difficult to project 
how related financial risks will materialize across the global economy and markets. In addition, 
climate scenario analysis is relatively new and evolving rapidly, including with respect to underlying 
assumptions, methodologies and data. As such, this report represents the first step in our journey 
with the commitment to deepening our understanding of and advancing our approach to  
climate-related risks and opportunities over time.
Climate-related opportunities and risks manifest in many different ways across our businesses. We see significant 
opportunities across our financing, investing, asset management, advisory and risk management activities as we work with 
our clients to help address the climate challenge. At the same time, extreme weather events may disrupt operations or 
affect the value of our investments, negative financial impacts on clients from climate change may increase credit risk, and 
involvement in certain industries associated with climate change may pose reputational risk. Given the broad-based impacts 
of climate change, our cohesive strategy leverages the breadth of our global businesses and the depth of our expertise and 
insights to advance climate-related opportunities and to manage climate risk.
Our strategy includes a 10-year, $750 billion strategic target to finance, invest and advise clients across nine sustainable 
growth themes, which underlie climate transition and inclusive growth. In addition, given global economies for the 
foreseeable future are dependent on fossil-based energy and carbon-intensive activities, we are committed to supporting 
clients across all industries in their efforts to accelerate their climate transition and doing so in an orderly manner. This  
enables us to not only better serve the interests of our clients but also more effectively manage our own risk exposures.
In 2019, we strengthened our firmwide efforts by establishing the Sustainable Finance Group (SFG), which reports to the 
Chairman’s Office and is responsible for partnering with our global businesses to deliver leading sustainability expertise 
and drive innovative solutions for our clients. This effort is supported by a cross-divisional steering group of senior business 
leaders to deliver the breadth of our capabilities. 
Our strategy also entails understanding and managing climate-related physical, transition and reputational risks. This is 
embedded both in our comprehensive firmwide risk management approach and more specifically in our climate change risk 
management framework. In addition to managing risk across our client activities and related balance sheet exposure and 
reputational risk, we continue to adopt best practices to reduce our own carbon footprint and integrate resiliency into our 
global operations. 
Underlying our strategy is an ongoing commitment to deepening our understanding and knowledge of, and progressing our 
approach to, managing climate risks and advancing market opportunities. To that end, we leverage the lessons learned from 
managing our own business and serving our clients, as well as from our external stakeholder engagement, to help inform the 
work we do and further best practices across the financial services industry and more broadly. We also harness our research insights 
and thought leadership to help inform markets and policy, and engage in broader partnerships to further market solutions. 
3
Goldman Sachs 2019 TCFD Report
Governance 
Given climate-related impacts manifest across our businesses in different ways, oversight and management of climate 
change is integrated into our existing governance structure. This helps to ensure that climate change is strategically 
managed and the expertise of the firm is both integrated and leveraged across relevant committees and functions. 
At the most senior level, under the oversight of the Board of Directors and at the direction of senior management, we  
are committed to serving our clients and delivering robust risk management, including on climate-related opportunities and 
risks. Our focus on not only clients but on effective risk and controls is core to our commitment to excellence, as reflected  
in our Core Values, Business Principles, and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.
Board of Directors: 
Our Board of Directors (the “Board”) and its committees are responsible for overseeing the management of the firm’s 
most significant risks, placing significant focus on reputational risk and management’s operation of the firm for the  
long term.
•  The Board’s Public Responsibilities Committee (PRC) provides oversight of our firmwide sustainability strategy and 
sustainability issues affecting the firm, including with respect to climate change. As part of its oversight, the PRC 
receives updates on the firm’s Environmental Policy Framework (EPF), which serves as an ambitious roadmap for how 
we seek to leverage our people, capital and ideas to address critical environmental challenges and promote sustainable 
economic growth across our businesses. The EPF also includes environmental and social risk guidelines, including for 
carbon-intensive sectors. 
•  The Risk Committee of the Board oversees the firm’s overall risk-taking tolerance and management of financial and non-
financial risks, including climate risk. In this respect, the Risk Committee provides oversight of the firm’s Risk Appetite 
Statement (RAS), which conveys the firm’s view of its risk culture, risk appetite and risk management philosophies, 
including those related to climate change.
4
Goldman Sachs 2019 TCFD Report
Firmwide Committees: 
In addition to Board-level oversight, we have a series of firm-level committees with risk management mandates that have 
oversight or decision-making responsibilities for risk management activities and environmental, social and governance 
(ESG) issues, including relevant climate change considerations. At a firmwide level, the Enterprise Risk Committee 
oversees all of our financial and non-financial risks, including climate-related risk. 
In addition, we have firm-level risk committees that provide oversight for different businesses, activities, products, regions 
and entities. For example, the Firmwide Capital Committee, which approves and oversees debt-related transactions, 
including balance sheet-related commitments, integrates relevant climate-related considerations. For our own operations, 
the Firmwide Resilience and Operational Risk Committee provides oversight over operational risk and resiliency, 
including physical risks relating to climate change. 
All of our committees have responsibility for considering the reputational impact of transactions and activities that they 
review. The Firmwide Reputational Risk Committee provides oversight over transactions that may have heightened 
reputational risk, which includes considerations relating to environmental and social factors, such as climate-related 
reputational risk.
Below are relevant key committees. 
Committee Description
Oversees global activities directly and through authority delegated to committees it has established. 
Management Committee
This committee consists of our most senior leaders. 
Oversees all of our financial and non-financial risks as well as the ongoing review, approval and 
Firmwide Enterprise Risk Committee
monitoring of our enterprise risk management framework.
Assesses reputational risks arising from transactions that have been identified as having potential 
Firmwide Reputational Risk Committee 
heightened reputational risk.
Approves and oversees debt-related transactions and ensures that business, reputational and  
Firmwide Capital Committee
suitability standards for underwritings and capital commitments are maintained on a global basis.
Approves and oversees underwriting and distribution activities with respect to equity and equity-related 
Firmwide Commitments Committee products, and sets and maintains policies and procedures designed to ensure that legal, reputational, 
regulatory and business standards are maintained on a global basis.
Reviews, approves, sets policies and oversees certain principal investments, including review of  
Firmwide Investment Policy Committee
risk management and controls for these types of investments.
Firmwide Resilience and Operational 
Oversees operational risk, and ensures our business and operational resilience. 
Risk Committee
Maintains a consistent approach to evaluating risks associated with engaging in, investing in, or the 
Physical Commodity Review Committee financing of physical commodity activities that may have an impact on the environment or human  
health and safety.
5
Goldman Sachs 2019 TCFD Report
Relevant Divisions/Functions: 
Climate change risks and opportunities are integrated across relevant areas of our businesses. As part of their 
responsibilities, the following three divisions/functions play a specific role in managing climate-related risks and 
opportunities and ensuring that we continue to advance our insights and expertise.
•  Risk Division: The Risk Division has a range of climate-related functions, working with business units and control 
groups on risk identification and stress-testing activities. The division also assesses financial risks of counterparties and 
transactions, including credit risk. In addition, the division oversees the firm’s operational resilience framework, which 
factors in potential impacts from climate-related risks on the firm’s activities.
•  Executive Office (EO) — Sustainable Finance Group (SFG): The SFG, which reports to the Office of the Chairman,  
is responsible for partnering with the firm’s global businesses to deliver leading sustainability expertise and capabilities 
to our clients and drive innovative market solutions that advance climate transition and inclusive growth. SFG also 
engages with the firm’s stakeholders to stay abreast of and, where relevant, help inform sustainable finance and climate 
change-related policy. In addition, SFG works with the Business Intelligence Group, the Risk Division and the business 
units on firmwide environmental and social risk management and related guidelines. By being part of the EO and 
working across all of the global businesses, clients and stakeholders, SFG brings together the breadth of our knowledge 
and capabilities and ensures we continue to deliver our insights and expertise.
•  Services Division — Corporate Services & Real Estate (CSRE), Crisis Management Group: The Services Division 
provides essential commercial advisory and management services to enable the firm’s flow of business, drive 
operational efficiency, manage risk and deliver the world’s best work experience and environment. CSRE partners  
with the Crisis Management Group to assess and plan for near- and long-term climate-related risks across our operations 
through infrastructure and business continuity reviews of the firm’s global corporate real estate portfolio. This enables 
climate-related risk to be actively monitored and threats to be minimized to ensure the firm operates continuously 
through and swiftly recovers from any business disruption.
Cross-Divisional Groups: 
In addition to the specific divisions/functions, we have established cross-divisional steering groups to more effectively 
leverage the firm’s capabilities and activities and to ensure a holistic, firmwide approach to managing climate-related risks 
and opportunities. These include: 
•  Sustainable Finance Steering Group: Comprised of senior leaders responsible for integrating sustainability expertise 
across our divisions and bringing our capabilities together across the firm. The group convenes periodically to guide 
and support firmwide sustainable finance efforts relating to key strategic initiatives and client delivery, while providing 
leadership for cross-divisional work streams and new opportunities.
•  Climate Change Risk Steering Group: Comprised of representatives from the Risk Division, Services Division and the 
Executive Office that are responsible for evaluating climate-related scenario analysis and the broader TCFD assessment. 
This group also reviews the implementation of the strategic climate risk management approach outlined in this report to 
strengthen climate-related financial risk integration across our businesses and practices. 
6
Goldman Sachs 2019 TCFD Report
Strategy — Advancing the Opportunity
As markets and client activity shift in response to climate change, we have a substantial opportunity to harness innovative 
capital market tools and partner with our clients to help accelerate their climate transition. In addition, our ability to 
leverage the breadth of our capabilities, our commitment to continuously deepening our expertise and refining our insights, 
and applying these both across our own operations and in serving our clients’ needs, ensures we stay front-footed in 
integrating climate change opportunities and risks.
In December 2019, we announced a new sustainable finance target of $750 billion of financing, investing and advisory 
activity by 2030. This target encompasses activities across nine strategic growth themes, which are rooted in 10+ years  
of market research, focused on climate transition and inclusive growth. Areas of focus in our climate transition activity 
include clean energy, sustainable transport, sustainable food and agriculture, waste and material, as well as ecosystem 
services — areas where we can help scale technology and solutions through greater and more efficient capital 
deployment. In addition to this target, we have expanded our work with clients more broadly to help them with their 
climate transition and in ensuring sustainable growth more broadly, and we are harnessing innovative market solutions  
to help clients better manage and adapt to climate risks. 
Leveraging the Breadth of Our Businesses 
We leverage our capabilities across financing, advisory, risk management solutions, asset management and investing 
to help our clients achieve their climate-related goals, facilitate the low-carbon transition, and strengthen adaptation and 
resiliency. The following table provides an overview. 
7
Goldman Sachs 2019 TCFD Report
Business Activity Key Examples 
•  Deployed more than $115 billion toward clean energy financing  
and investing since 2006
Investment Banking: Our Investment Banking franchise is well- 
positioned to support clients with climate transition strategies   •  Active underwriter of catastrophe bonds, helping raise more than 
and to assist both incumbents and new companies to innovate and   $20 billion to manage weather-related events since 2006
grow. Goldman Sachs is a leading global M&A advisor and is   •  Underwrote nearly $59 billion in green, social and sustainability  
regularly recognized for our leadership in clean energy financing   bonds since 2014 
and innovative sustainability financing solutions.
•  Advising clients on low-carbon transition and sustainable  
growth strategies
•  Merchant Banking has a track record of investing in renewable  
energy and clean technology solutions globally
•  Goldman Sachs Asset Management (GSAM) has $74 billion  
Asset Management: Goldman Sachs has one of the leading  
in ESG and impact investing assets under supervision (AUS)  
investing and asset management franchises across the breadth of  
as of December 2019
asset classes and with global scale. A key area of strategic focus  
is ESG and impact investing as well as investing in climate transition   •  GSAM recognizes that environmental factors, including climate change, 
and sustainable growth themes. can affect investment performance and considers it an engagement 
priority. It has supported shareholder proposals related to climate 
change disclosures 60 percent of the time and shareholder proposals 
related to a 2-degree scenario analysis 100 percent of the time1
Consumer & Wealth Management: ESG and impact investing is a fast- •  Provides innovative client solutions across portfolios, investment 
growing area for our consumer and wealth management businesses,  strategies and products, including customizable passive ESG  
with investment strategies across a number of innovative environmental  options, ESG structured notes, and renewable funds and other  
and social themes. climate offerings 
Global Markets: Goldman Sachs facilitates the efficient development 
of carbon and other climate-related commodity markets. Our Global  •  Supported over $1.5 billion of new build renewable investments  
Markets business has been a leading participant in the global energy  through 1,250 MW+ of renewable offtake transactions since 2018
markets for over 20 years and is active in both carbon and renewable  •  Market maker in carbon credits, participating in the EU Emission  
energy markets, helping developers and corporates scale solutions   Trading Scheme from its inception and in the California carbon market
and mitigate risks. 
1GSAM Stewardship Report, 2019.
Global Markets and our other businesses are supported by our Global Investment Research (GIR) division. GIR is a 
leading provider of ESG thought leadership with a dedicated global SUSTAIN team. SUSTAIN research includes an ESG 
framework through which to evaluate corporate ESG engagement, and investing roadmaps and thematic pieces on the 
risks and opportunities associated with sustainability. Climate change has been a growing area of research focus, with 
topics such as carbon pricing, climate resiliency of cities, climate strategies of Big Oil companies, and investing in climate 
solutions. Read the reports here. 
For additional details, please refer to our 2019 Sustainability Report.
8
Goldman Sachs 2019 TCFD Report
Public Policy and Industry Engagement 
We continue to work with other companies, nonprofit organizations and other stakeholders to share insights and  
further best practices that advance sustainability and climate transition. In addition, where appropriate, we advocate for 
effective climate policy to help inform ways to advance market solutions that can help address climate change.  
The following are examples. 
•  Paris Climate Agreement: We have actively engaged in making the business case for global climate action, including 
support for the 2015 UNFCCC Paris Agreement. We were one of the first US companies to commit to the White House 
American Business Act on Climate Pledge in 2015; we signed an open letter alongside 29 other CEOs in 2017 to support 
the US staying in the Paris Agreement; and more recently, we were part of a group of 80+ CEOs and labour leaders 
reiterating our support that staying in the Paris Agreement will strengthen US competitiveness in global markets.
•  Carbon pricing: We have long articulated the need for governments to provide transparency around the costs of 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and to create long-term value for GHG emissions reductions. More recently, in a 
December 2019 editorial, our CEO David Solomon underscored the urgency and business case for climate transition and 
called for governments to put a price on carbon. In February 2020, Goldman Sachs, alongside more than 25 companies, 
joined as a founding member of the Climate Leadership Council (CLC) to support a revenue-neutral carbon fee and 
dividend plan for the US.
•  Catalyzing climate finance: We have continued to leverage our market insights to help catalyze greater capital flows  
to address climate change. In 2019, we joined the CEO-led Climate Finance Leadership Initiative (CFLI) as one of 
seven founding members, to support greater mobilization of climate finance flows. In September 2019, CFLI delivered 
its Financing the Low-Carbon Future report to the UN to inform ways to further mobilize private climate finance at the 
scale and speed needed to support a rapid and orderly transition to a low-carbon global economy.
•  Integrating climate-related risks and opportunities: In 2019, Goldman Sachs Asset Management teamed up with a 
select group of other leading asset managers to advance climate-related investment among national sovereign wealth 
funds (SWFs). Known as the One Planet Asset Managers Initiative, this collaboration supports the efforts of the One 
Planet SWF Working Group, composed of leading sovereign wealth funds, to drive a deeper consideration of the impact 
of climate change on investment portfolios.
Operational Best Practices
In addition to harnessing the breadth of our businesses to help our clients with their climate transition and scaling 
innovative market solutions to address climate change, Goldman Sachs is committed to being a leader in implementing 
sustainability practices that minimize the impact of our global operations on the environment. For example, we have been 
carbon neutral from 2015 onward across our global direct Scope 1, indirect (market-based) Scope 2, and Scope 3 business 
travel emissions. Additionally, by year-end 2020, we are committed to procuring 100% renewable energy and attaining 
LEED Gold or equivalent for 70 percent of our global corporate real estate footprint.
In December 2019, we established a new suite of 2025 operational sustainability goals with a focus on strategic, 
collaborative partnerships that drive market transformation, as outlined in our Sustainability Report. The firm has been a 
member of RE100 since 2015 and recently joined additional initiatives EV100 and EP100 with ambitious commitments  
to electrify transport and deploy smarter energy use — making us the first US company to become a member of all three  
of The Climate Group’s global corporate leadership initiatives to accelerate the clean energy transition. 
9
Goldman Sachs 2019 TCFD Report
Risk Management 
Because we are a global financial services firm with clients operating in diverse sectors and offices across many  
countries, climate change presents a range of potential risk considerations across our businesses and activities. For 
example, climate change may cause extreme weather events that disrupt operations at one or more of our primary 
locations, which may negatively affect our ability to service and interact with our clients and also may adversely affect the 
value of our investments. Climate change may also have a negative impact on the financial condition of our clients, which 
may decrease cash flows from those clients and increase the credit risk associated with loans and other credit exposures 
to these clients. Additionally, our reputation may be impacted as a result of our involvement, or our clients’ involvement,  
in certain industries or projects associated with climate change. 
The table below provides a description of the range of climate-related risk considerations. 
Risk Description 
Market Physical and transition risk could impact the value of assets in which we make markets and invest.
Counterparty financial performance and collateral values could deteriorate as the transition  
Credit
and physical impacts of climate change manifest over time.
Climate-related disruptions could impact the availability and accessibility of capital in markets for 
Liquidity
certain sectors and securities.
Increased severity of climate-related events could impact our office locations and disrupt our  
Operational
systems, people and processes across our global footprint.
Growing stakeholder focus on corporate action to meet emissions reduction targets can result  
Reputation in increased reputational risk and reduced client and employee loyalty, investor divestment and  
impacts to client activity. 
Climate-related disclosures are increasingly important and climate-related litigation could also result 
Legal
from stranded assets, acute climate events or resulting market price declines. 
10
Goldman Sachs 2019 TCFD Report
Climate-Risk Scenario Analysis
Our overall business structure, strategy and comprehensive risk management provide a strong foundation for  
managing and mitigating these potential risks. However, climate change is highly complex and non-linear, with many 
uncertainties. In addition, new data, tools, and expectations are continuously evolving. As such, we have a climate  
change risk management framework, which includes stress testing based on an initial set of scenarios. As part of  
ongoing implementation, we are undertaking further refinement of the scenarios with the goal of improving their risk 
management benefit.
As a global financial institution, we use a variety of stress-testing techniques to calculate the potential impact of a wide 
range of potential market moves. We perform stress testing on a regular basis to ensure a comprehensive analysis  
of our vulnerabilities and idiosyncratic risks in anticipation of market events or conditions, which include climate 
considerations. For climate stress testing, we perform both (i) transition risk stress tests on the value of our balance  
sheet-related equity and credit assets, and (ii) physical risk stress tests on our global properties. The following is what  
we have initially undertaken: 
(i) Transition Risk Stress Test
Transition risk arises from changes to policy, technology and consumer preferences over time that reduce reliance on 
carbon-intensive products and services. The composition of industries, particularly in the energy sector, will change as 
a result of compliance with climate policy changes such as the implementation of the Paris Agreement. Since individual 
countries will implement decarbonization policies in different ways, changes to industries will also depend on where they 
are located and how the policies evolve over time. Climate policy changes introduce financial risks to financial institutions 
that may own or finance companies whose value could be affected. To measure these risks, we perform transition risk 
stress testing.
Currently, we perform transition risk stress tests under two scenarios: 1) a scenario in which the Paris Agreement is fully 
implemented by all countries; and 2) a scenario in which the Paris Agreement is partially implemented in line with current 
policy plans. In implementing each scenario, we assume that a credible policy change is announced and that the market 
consequently adjusts credit ratings and prices of affected companies and trades. In each stress test, we estimate the 
change in credit ratings that would result from each policy change as well as the changes in equity and credit prices that 
are consistent with those credit rating changes. We then reprice all affected assets on our balance sheet to measure the 
total change in value that would result under each scenario.
(ii) Physical Risk Stress Test
Physical risk arises from changes to the environment that are produced directly by the continuing concentration of GHGs 
in the atmosphere and the consequent increases in temperature, precipitation, sea level and other environmental factors. 
Physical changes in the environment may affect the value of properties directly; an increase in sea level, coupled with 
more extreme precipitation and hurricanes, would affect the value of coastal properties, for example. But physical risks 
may also influence the value of assets indirectly by reducing local economic growth, worsening health or lowering labor 
productivity. The magnitude of physical risks that manifest is linked to transition scenarios, since GHG emissions and their 
resulting impacts will be determined by policy-driven mitigation measures. 
In our physical stress test, we examine the effect of heat stress, water stress, extreme precipitation, sea level rise, and 
flooding on our properties. The climate policy that we assume in our stress test is a high-emissions policy. We assume that 
the concentration of GHGs increases even more than expected under current policies and that therefore temperature and 
other environmental risks worsen relative to business-as-usual expectations. 
11
Goldman Sachs 2019 TCFD Report
(iii) Next Steps
These initial stress tests were helpful in understanding relative sensitivities and providing a starting point for further 
refining the analysis. To that end, we are working to enhance our transition risk and physical risk stress tests along a 
number of dimensions in order to improve their decision usefulness. In our transition risk stress test, we are examining 
how to increase its flexibility so that we can run a wider range of scenarios that incorporate more varied policy changes. 
Similarly, in our physical risk stress tests, we are exploring how we might incorporate a wider range of policy changes, 
such as full adherence to the Paris Agreement. We are also considering how to add more physical risks to our physical 
stress test, such as wildfires, and how to better estimate the effects of physical risks on asset values. More broadly, we 
are investigating whether the transition risk and physical risk stress tests should be unified or whether it would be more 
beneficial to keep them separate. 
Comprehensive Risk Management Approach 
Business Structure and Strategy: 
As a global financial institution with a diverse set of businesses and clients, our business structure and strategy help us 
manage overall climate-related risks and increase our ability to participate in climate-related opportunities. 
•  A significant part of our client financings in our Investment Banking business are provided through our underwritten 
offerings where we connect users of capital with investors versus holding financings on our balance sheet. For 
underwritings, how we perform due diligence, make business selection decisions and provide relevant disclosures  
are critical and form part of our comprehensive risk management approach.
•  Our Asset Management and Consumer & Wealth Management businesses largely relate to client assets and are 
integrating ESG considerations, including climate-related strategies for our clients, as well as taking into account factors 
that could be material in valuing performance and risk, such as those relating to climate change.
•  Our Global Markets business is highly diversified and managed in a way that reflects real-time information and shifts  
in potential risks. 
Given this current business mix and structure, and based on our initial stress tests, the direct balance sheet impacts 
from climate change are relatively modest. However, our ability to effectively manage climate risks and opportunities is 
important across our businesses in serving our clients and managing and protecting existing pools of assets while  
creating opportunities for further growth.
Business Activities: 
We believe that effective risk management is critical to our success. Accordingly, we have a well-established enterprise 
risk management (ERM) framework, which is ultimately overseen by our Board. The ERM framework employs a 
comprehensive, integrated approach to risk management, and it is designed to enable robust risk management processes 
through which we identify, assess, monitor and manage the risks we assume in conducting our business activities. 
As part of our risk management approach, we have firmwide policy guidelines and dedicated teams that support business 
selection and review processes:
12
Goldman Sachs 2019 TCFD Report
•  Firmwide policy guidelines for carbon-intensive sectors and activities, such as coal-fired power generation, palm  
oil, and oil & gas are included in our Environmental Policy Framework (EPF). The EPF was updated in December  
2019 to restrict certain carbon-related business activities and to strengthen our work with clients to help them with  
their climate transition. 
•  Upfront business selection and due diligence processes that include 14 key sector and cross-sector guidelines, and 
worst-case-loss calculations for physical commodities in certain carbon-intensive sectors, complement the EPF. These 
guidelines and tools are leveraged across the various activities of the firm at the business selection stage and through 
designated committee review processes. There are escalation mechanisms and protocols undertaken at each stage. 
Where relevant, we also incorporate extreme weather and flooding event probability into worst-case-loss calculations  
for certain transactions. See Environmental and Social Risk Management for more information. 
•  Risk Identification and Scenario Design, which is a periodic process that we undertake to review the materiality of 
evolving risks in our business activities over a two-year forward-looking horizon, includes the assessment of impact from 
climate change.
In addition, our ongoing risk monitoring from credit, liquidity, and market risk management teams, mark-to-market portfolio 
valuations, dynamic hedging, and insurance requirements where relevant, enables overall position management and 
exposure reduction where potential material risks are identified.
Operations: 
For our physical assets, the Firmwide Resilience and Operational Risk Committee oversees business continuity planning 
and crisis management efforts, including planning for climate-related risks. The committee oversees efforts related to:
•  Regular resiliency reviews 
•  Comprehensive infrastructure and business continuity assessments 
• Overall real estate site selection and management strategy
•  Business Continuity Planning and remote access infrastructure
We also consider such risks through all stages of our corporate real estate strategy, from site selection and building design 
to occupancy and facilities management. Within our operations, we utilize various metrics and dashboards to prioritize and 
track risks that pose a threat to the health and safety of our employees or to the firm’s critical infrastructure assets that 
support core business functions.
13
Goldman Sachs 2019 TCFD Report
Metrics and Targets
Business Opportunities: The firm has had a long-standing commitment to harnessing market solutions to address climate 
change. One of the key ways we have been doing this is by mobilizing capital to scale clean energy, given energy is the 
largest contributor of greenhouse gas emissions. Clean energy also brings benefits of energy diversification and security, 
technology innovation, and green jobs, as well as health benefits. Since 2006, we have mobilized over $115 billion in clean 
energy financing and investments.
Going forward, we have a more expansive goal to deploy $750 billion in sustainable finance over the next 10 years, with  
a focus on climate transition and inclusive growth. Please refer to our Sustainability Report for more information about our 
Sustainable Finance Goals.
$750 BILLION IN FINANCING, INVESTMENT AND ADVISORY ACTIVITY  
ACROSS NINE SUSTAINABLE GROWTH THEMES BY 2030
CLIMATE TRANSITION INCLUSIVE GROWTH
Clean   Sustainable Food   Ecosystem  Financial  
Communities
Energy & Agriculture Services Inclusion
Accessible   Accessible  
Sustainable   Waste  
& Innovative   & Affordable  
Transport & Materials
Healthcare  Education
14
Goldman Sachs 2019 TCFD Report
Operations and GHG Emissions: To ensure we remain a leader in implementing sustainability practices and reducing 
operational risk, our Services Division is committed to minimizing the impact of our operations on the environment and 
adopting best practices. We have been carbon neutral across our global operations and business travel since 2015, and 
are progressing on our 2020 operational goals. Additionally, alongside the sustainable finance target, we announced new 
operational goals for 2025, with a focus on strategic, collaborative partnerships that drive market transformation. 
See Our Operational Impact.
Progress Toward 2020 Goals for Our Operations
Category 2019 Status 2020 Goal1
Renewable Energy 
98% 100%
Meeting our global electricity needs using renewable energy 
Energy Efficiency 
-12% -10%
Reducing absolute energy use across our operationally controlled facilities
Green Buildings 
61% 70%
Achieving LEED Gold or equivalent green-building certifications 
Green Operational Investments 
$1.7B $2B
Dedicated budget for investing in green buildings and innovative green technologies
12020 goals are from a 2013 baseline except for our green operational investments, which includes capital invested since 2015, and our plastics reduction goal, which is from a 2018 baseline. 
Met or surpassed goal
We currently measure, disclose and reduce Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions from our own activities, and also  
disclose Scope 3 emissions related to business travel. See the following page for our latest GHG emissions and energy 
use data for 2019.  
15
Goldman Sachs 2019 TCFD Report
Energy and GHG Emissions
Trend  
2018–2019 2019 20181 20171
Energy
  Global Direct Energy Consumption (MWh) 45,281 41,237 41,207
    Natural Gas 93% 91% 90%
    Fuel Oil 7% 9% 10%
  Global Intermediate Energy Consumption (MWh) 489,908 508,703 499,077
    Purchased Electricity 96% 96% 97%
    Purchased Steam & Chilled Water 4% 4% 3%
  Global Direct and Intermediate Energy Consumption (MWh) 535,189 549,940 540,283
    ◊Reduction in Global Energy Consumption from Baseline (%)2 -12% -10% -12%
  Global Renewable Energy Consumption (MWh) 460,455 463,192 453,518
    ◊Percent Renewable Energy 98% 95% 94%
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions
  Scope 1 — Direct (metric tons CO equivalent [tCOe]) 12,673 11,565 11,231
2 2
    Natural Gas 68% 66% 67%
    Fuel Oil 6% 8% 9%
    HFC Refrigerants 26% 26% 24%
  Scope 2 (location) — Indirect (tCOe)  166,249 187,418 189,599
2
    Purchased Electricity 98% 98% 99%
    Purchased Steam & Chilled Water 2% 2% 1%
  Scope 2 (market) — Indirect (tCOe)  9,109 16,284 18,410
2
    Purchased Electricity 64% 81% 87%
    Purchased Steam & Chilled Water 36% 19% 13%
  Scope 3: Category 6 — Business Travel (tCOe)  135,473 139,893 120,001
2
    Commercial Air 83% 88% 88%
    Other Travel3 17% 12% 12%
  Total Emissions: Scope 1 & 2 (location) (tCOe)  178,922 198,983 200,830
2
    Office Scope 1 & 2 55% 53% 53%
    Data Center Scope 1 & 2 45% 47% 47%
  Total Emissions: Scope 1, 2 (market) (tCOe) 21,782 27,849 29,641
2
  Total Emissions: Scope 1, 2 (market), and 3 Category 6 (tCOe) 157,255 167,742 149,642
2
    Verified Carbon Offset Emissions Reductions (tCOe)1 157,255 165,051 146,950
2
  ◊Net Emissions: Scope 1, 2 (market), and 3 Category 6 (tCOe)1 0 0 0
2
  Revenues (tCOe/$M)4 4.9 5.4 6.1
2
  Rentable Square Feet (KgCOe/sq. ft.)4 14.9 17.9 20.7
2
  Employee (tCOe/employee)4 4.7 5.4 6.0
2
Notes:
Note 1:  Historical energy, water and GHG emissions data has been adjusted and restated from baseline 2013 onward to account for acquisitions and divestitures.  
Carbon offsets and net emissions reflect verified totals in the year of initial reporting.
Note 2: This symbol ◊ before an indicator denotes an environmental commitment through Goldman Sachs’ 2015 EPF; reductions are from a 2013 baseline.
Note 3: This includes charter air, rail/bus, ferry, car and hotels.
Note 4: Metrics are normalized using Scope 1 & Scope 2 (location) emissions.
16
Goldman Sachs 2019 TCFD Report
The Path Forward 
This report is the first step in our application of TCFD recommendations. Goldman Sachs is committed to continuing 
our work with various stakeholders, including clients, shareholders, peer banks and other key constituents to improve 
methodologies on climate-related risk analysis and disclosures and to furthering climate-related opportunities to 
facilitate the transition to a sustainable low-carbon economy. Per the TCFD recommendations, which acknowledge that 
implementation is a journey that will evolve over time, we will continue to refine our climate initiatives and disclosure in a 
way that progresses our ability to more effectively manage risk-and-capture strategic growth opportunities while helping 
to inform the broader market. We look forward to continuing our engagement on this important topic, and leveraging the 
breadth of our businesses to navigate the transition to a low-carbon economy.
This document is not a product of Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research. This document should not be used as a basis for trading in the securities or 
loans of the companies named herein or for any other investment decision. This document does not constitute an offer to sell the securities or loans of the 
companies named herein or a solicitation of proxies or votes and should not be construed as consisting of investment advice. This material is not intended to 
be used as a general guide to investing, or as a source of any specific investment recommendations. Goldman Sachs is not providing any financial, economic, 
legal, accounting, or tax advice or recommendations. This material does not purport to contain a comprehensive overview of Goldman Sachs products and 
offering and may differ from the views and opinions of other departments or divisions of Goldman Sachs and its affiliates.
This report contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 
1995. Forward-looking statements are not historical facts, but instead represent only the firm’s beliefs regarding future events, many of which, by their nature, 
are inherently uncertain and outside of the firm’s control.  It is possible that the firm’s actual results may differ, possibly materially, from the anticipated goals 
and targets indicated in these forward-looking statements. For information about some of the risks and important factors that could affect the firm’s future 
results, see Item 8.01 of the firm’s Report on Form 8-K dated April 15, 2020 and “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of the firm’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for 
the year ended December 31, 2019.  
© 2020 Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC. All rights reserved.
17