
2021
TCFD report
BlackRock’s climate-related 
disclosures 
Contents
Executive summary 05
Governance 11
Strategy 14
Risk management 33
Metrics & targets 34
Cover photo: The KeoSeimaWildlife Sanctuary (“KSWS”) is  Photo courtesy of KSWS and Wildlife Conservation Society. 
home to a rich diversity of wildlife, forest types, landscapes,  Pictured is a black-shanked douc langur. KSWS is home to the 
and Indigenous communities. Pictured here is a part of the  largest population in the world of this critically endangered 
tree canopy in the KSWS, an area that includes evergreen,  monkey, and to the highest number of species recorded in any 
semi-evergreen, deciduous, and bamboo forests.BlackRock  protected area in Cambodia. 
has supported KSWS through its carbon credits strategy. 
Photo courtesy of KSWS and Wildlife Conservation Society.
To our stakeholders
BlackRock is pleased to provide our second report aligned to the recommendations of the Task Force 
on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (“TCFD”). This report serves our commitment to providing 
meaningful transparency on our approach to managing climate-related risks and opportunities across 
our business.
It is our continued belief that robust and thoughtful disclosure can impact how companies are 
managed for the benefit of all stakeholders. BlackRock was an early advocate of the TCFD 
Recommendations and we continue to encourage adoption of the TCFD as a disclosure framework. We 
Dalia Blass are encouraged by the year-over-year increase in the number of companies who are reporting against 
Global Head of  the TCFD recommendations and more recent developments to encourage further standardization of 
External Affairs global sustainability disclosures. 
As advocates for transparency, we recognize the importance of BlackRock meeting the same 
standards of disclosure that we ask of the companies our clients are invested in. TCFD is a key 
mechanism through which BlackRock can provide transparency to stakeholders on how we are 
managing climate risk and addressing the global transition to net zero within our business. But it’s 
also an important mechanism through which we can contribute to the evolving global dialogue on 
what informative and decision-useful climate-related disclosure looks like to investors.
This year, BlackRock announced a series of commitments in support of clients as they prepare their 
Alexis  portfolios for a net zero economy. Getting to net zero requires measuring where we are today. That’s 
Rosenblum, CFA why a critical component of our commitment is focused on enhancing transparency at the fund and 
Chief Corporate  firm level. This year’s TCFD report marks the first time that BlackRock is reporting preliminary 
Sustainability  estimates reflecting the emissions associated with BlackRock’s clients’ investments in corporate 
Officer securities and real estate (where reliable data is available). 
We all have some way to go, but this is a milestone on our journey as we work towards a more 
equitable and resilient future for our stakeholders. We look forward to your feedback on how we can 
continue to strengthen our efforts and further advance the global dialogue around climate-related 
disclosures. 
BlackRock 2021 TCFD Report 3
About this report
BlackRock’s 2021 Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (“TCFD”) Report is being provided for BlackRock, 
Inc. (together, with its subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise indicates, “BlackRock” or the “Company” or the “firm”). The 
report is aligned to the TCFD Recommendations.1 All data in this report is as of September 30, 2021 unless otherwise noted.  
The policies and practices referred to in this report, unless otherwise noted, are adopted by BlackRock on a group-wide 
basis and applied in relevant jurisdictions in which BlackRock operates. All references to figures in dollars ($) are in USD.
TCFD Recommendations
The TCFD Recommendations, first launched in 2017, are designed to encourage consistent and comparable reporting on 
climate-related risks and opportunities by companies to their stakeholders. The TCFD Recommendations are structured 
around four content pillars: (i) Governance; (ii) Strategy; (iii) Risk Management; and (iv) Metrics & Targets; and eleven 
recommendations to support effective disclosure under each pillar. Throughout this report, BlackRock has sought to 
provide information on all four pillars and eleven recommendations.
Perspectives included in this report
BlackRock is a leading publicly traded investment management firm with $9.46 trillion of assets under management 
(“AUM”). With approximately 18,000 employees in more than 30 countries who serve clients in over 100 countries across 
the globe, BlackRock provides a broad range of investment management and technology services to institutional and retail 
clients worldwide. As an asset manager, BlackRock invests assets that belong to its clients, on its clients’ behalf. BlackRock 
also offers the investment and risk management platform, Aladdin®, which combines comprehensive portfolio 
management, trading, and risk reporting tools with sophisticated risk analytics on a single platform.  
BlackRock, therefore, approaches climate-related risks2and opportunities from two main perspectives, which are captured 
across this report:
1. As an asset manager striving to help our clients benefit from investment opportunities arising from the global transition 
to net zero, and with a responsibility to manage material risks to our clients’ portfolios, including climate-related risks, 
within the bounds of our clients’ guidelines and objectives; and
2. As a corporate entity whose business is affected by climate-related risks and opportunities and whose operations have 
both direct and indirect impacts on the climate.  
Reporting on Other Sustainability-Related Topics
While this report is focused on climate-related risks and opportunities, BlackRock has also published corporate 
sustainability disclosure on other environmental, social, and governance (“ESG”) topics in its 2020 Sustainability 
Disclosure.
Constant Evolution
As the sustainability landscape evolves with new information and greater standardization, BlackRock will continue to refine 
and expand its disclosures to provide meaningful information for stakeholders. We look forward to feedback and encourage 
our stakeholders to provide feedback by emailing invrel@blackrock.com.
BlackRock 2021 TCFD Report 4
Executive summary
BlackRock is a publicly traded investment management firm that provides 
investment management and technology services to institutional and 
$434 bn
retail clients worldwide. The assets BlackRock manages –BlackRock’s 
AUM –belong to BlackRock’s clients who rely on us to act in their best 
interests. BlackRock clients range from pension funds serving nurses, 
teachers, and factory workers, to individuals planning to buy a home or  AUM in dedicated 
pay for their children’s education. BlackRock invests its clients’ money in 
sustainable investment 
companies of all types and sizes, in every region of the world, helping 
strategies1
those companies grow and operate. 
As BlackRock’s CEO, Larry Fink, has said: “There is no company whose 
business model won’t be profoundly affected by the transition to a net  $64 bn
zero economy.”2 This statement holds just as true for BlackRock as it does 
for any other company. As long-term investors, clients expect BlackRock 
to monitor and act on long-term risks and opportunities that affect their 
net inflows into sustainable 
investments. Clients of all types are asking how to prepare their portfolios 
investment strategies
for the physical effects of climate change and the transition to a net zero 
economy. BlackRock is evolving its business strategy, governance, and 
risk-management processes to account for climate-related impacts to its 
business and clients.
$36 bn
Supporting the transition to net zero
In 2020, BlackRock announced a commitment to making Sustainability  invested in green bonds on 
Our Standard for Investing. Building upon the progress made in 2020, 
behalf of clients
BlackRock announced a series of commitments in January 2021 focused 
on the global transition to net zero. The commitments focus on three 
themes: (i) measurement and transparency; (ii) investment management; 
350
and (iii) investment stewardship. In 2021, BlackRock joined the Net Zero 
Asset Managers initiative (“NZAM”) and the Glasgow Financial Alliance for 
Net Zero (“GFANZ”). GFANZ brings together financial sector net zero 
wind, solar, & electric vehicle 
initiatives for the common goal of decarbonizing the economy. BlackRock 
infrastructure projects 
has made significant progress towards its goals and commitments that 
were set forth earlier this year. funded by Real Assets Team
Investment opportunities for clients
60
The climate transition will create historic investment opportunities for 
BlackRock’s clients. As the world moves toward net zero, BlackRock can 
best serve its clients by providing investment solutions to help them  new sustainable ETFs and 
navigate the transition. In 2021, BlackRock increased the number and  index mutual funds launched 
breadth of investment solutions available to our clients. BlackRock 
in 2021
launched nine new funds and repurposed seven equity and fixed income 
funds with clearly articulated ESG criteria embedded in their investment 
mandates and objectives. BlackRock also launched active sustainable  Figures above as of September 30, 2021
exchange-traded funds (“ETFs”) focused on investing in companies that 
are positioned to benefit from the transition to a low carbon economy. 
Additionally, BlackRock enhanced existing ESG product suites by adding 
climate considerations and launched an ETF range that tracks Paris 
Aligned Benchmarks.3
BlackRock 2021 TCFD Report 5
“
Sustainable investing is one of the leading topics on every client’s 
mind, because sustainability risk is investment risk – and 
opportunity. The rise of sustainable investing is the biggest shift 
in global investing since the rise of securitization and indexing in 
the 1980s and even with record growth over the last few years, it’s 
still in early innings. 
Mark Wiedman, Head of International and Corporate Strategy, 2021
In addition, BlackRock announced a partnership with Temasek to focus on 
investments that advance decarbonization solutions through late-stage 
200+
venture capital and early growth private equity investment funds.4Blackrock 
has also raised $673 million for the Climate Finance Partnership (“CFP”), a 
public-private finance vehicle focused on investing in climate infrastructure  Sustainable Index 
across emerging markets.  Offerings globally
Engaging on climate risk & opportunities
BlackRock is a long-term investor on behalf of clients. As climate risks and 
1,645
opportunities are likely to impact long-term returns, BlackRock’s Investment 
Stewardship team (“BIS”) engages on climate risk with investee companies. 
This engagement stems from BlackRock’s conviction that companies that 
engagements on 
act early to anticipate climate-related risks will be better positioned to 
mitigate such risks and/or capture opportunities at a time of historic  environmental topics in 
transition. BIS understands that climate change can be very challenging for  2021
many companies and aims to be a supportive long-term investor on behalf of 
its clients.In 2021, BIS amplified climate and natural capital-related 
discussions with investee companies. During the 2020-2021 proxy year, BIS 
took voting action with 255 directors and 319 companies for climate-related  319
concerns that in BIS’ view could negatively affect shareholder value. BIS also 
expanded its Climate Focus Universe in 2021 to include over 1,000 public 
companies with which 
companies. BIS reviews and engages with the companies in the Climate 
Focus Universe on their climate action plans and disclosures. In 2021, BIS  voting action was taken for 
explicitly encouraged these companies to articulate how their business  climate-related concerns in 
model is aligned to a scenario in which global warming is limited to well 
2020 – 2021 proxy year
below 2°C, consistent with moving towards global net zero emissions by 
2050.5
Technology to measure climate risk >1000
Aladdin® is BlackRock’s end-to-end investment management and operations 
platform. Aladdin combines sophisticated risk analytics with portfolio  companies in BIS Climate 
management, trading, and operations tools on a single, unified platform. In 
Focus Universe
2020, BlackRock launched Aladdin Climate to meet the urgent need among 
financial institutions and investors to quantify climate risk in their portfolios. 
Aladdin Climate translates climate risks and opportunities into investment 
terms so that investors can understand their exposure to the financial risks  Figures above as of September 30, 2021, unless                
associated with climate change.  otherwise specified
BlackRock 2021 TCFD Report 6
“
As the world transitions to a net zero economy, it’s critical that 
investors understand the impact of their investment decisions 
through a climate risk-adjusted lens.
Sudhir Nair, Global Head of Aladdin, 2021
Aladdin Climate offers investors measures of physical and transition risk 
100%
with climate-adjusted security and portfolio-level financial risk metrics. To 
support the buildout of these capabilities, BlackRock has developed 
partnerships with leading researchers, energy system experts, climate 
renewable electricity 
scientists, and data providers, including Rhodium Group and Baringa 
Partners. In 2021, Aladdin Climate released a set of models and analytics  goal in operations 
covering both physical and transition risks. These tools were leveraged as  achieved
part of the climate scenario analysis discussed in this report.
Managing BlackRock’s operations sustainably
$2.8 tn
In 2020, BlackRock achieved carbon neutrality in its operations6 by 
employing energy-efficiency strategies, achieving its 100% renewable 
electricity goal,7and compensating for the emissions BlackRock could not 
AUM in funds for which 
otherwise eliminate by purchasing carbon credits.8 During 2021, BlackRock 
climate metrics are 
worked to advance its environmental sustainability strategy which is 
underpinned by setting science-aligned emissions reduction targets. To  reported publicly 10
achieve these targets, BlackRock’s focus will continue to be on increasing 
energy efficiency, maintaining its 100% renewable electricity goal, and 
151
supporting the development of new technologies that can help reduce 
emissions such as sustainable aviation fuel (“SAF”).
Philanthropy & Breakthrough active sustainable 
offerings
Philanthropy is one lever, among many, that BlackRock uses to drive the 
firm’s priorities. This year, BlackRock took steps to further align its 
philanthropic commitments with BlackRock’s leading role at the intersection 
of sustainability and technology. In 2021, The BlackRock Foundation 
committed $100 million, its largest grant ever, to Breakthrough Energy’s  8,000+
Catalyst Program (“Catalyst”), to help accelerate the development of the 
climate solutions necessary to achieve net zero emissions by 2050. This 
philanthropic capital will support cutting the “Green Premium”9 on clean  ESG metrics within 
energy technology including SAF, green hydrogen, direct air capture, and  Aladdin platform
long-duration energy storage.
Figures above as of September 30, 2021, 
unless otherwise specified
BlackRock 2021 TCFD Report 7
Our commitment to transparency are increasingly reporting their GHG emissions through 
voluntary and regulatory initiatives; (ii) BlackRock’s 
Getting to net zero starts with measuring where we stand  commitment to put sustainability at the center of Aladdin® 
today and providing transparency to stakeholders on where  has led to greater incorporation of climate-related metrics 
we’re going. BlackRock asks this of the companies in which  and data into BlackRock’s analytics; and (iii) a series of 
we invest on behalf of our clients, and we recognize the  industry efforts are facilitating the development of 
importance of leading by example in our own disclosure.  methodologies for calculating climate-related and portfolio 
That is why a critical component of BlackRock’s net zero  alignment metrics and setting net zero-aligned targets.
commitment is focused on enhancing transparency at the 
At the fund level, BlackRock publishes climate and other 
fund and firm level. 
Sustainability Characteristics, including weighted-average 
This TCFD report marks the first time that BlackRock is  carbon intensity (“WACI”) and implied temperature rise 
reporting preliminary estimates reflecting the greenhouse  (“ITR”), on product pages of BlackRock’s website for ETFs 
gas (“GHG”) emissions associated with BlackRock’s AUM.  and index mutual funds where sufficient data on the 
These figures represent the emissions associated with the  underlying fund holdings and satisfactory methodologies 
corporate securities and real estate BlackRock invests in on  are available. One or more climate-related metrics is 
behalf of its clients. Several advancements allow BlackRock  publicly available on product pages for $2.8 trillion in AUM 
to compile and report these estimates: (i) corporate issuers managed by BlackRock. 10
BlackRock’s Net Zero Commitments
Stewardship  Corporate Initiatives
Engaging with the companies our clients are invested in  Reporting aggregate emissions attributable to 
to understand how they are mitigating climate risk and  investment portfolios managed on behalf of BlackRock’s 
considering the opportunities presented by the net zero  clients, where data permits
transition
Continuing to advocate for public policies that help 
Asking companies to disclose a business plan aligned  make the financial system more resilient, sustainable, 
with the goal of limiting global warming to well below  and equitable, including advancing the goal of net zero
2ºC, consistent with achieving net zero global emissions 
by 2050
Increasing the role of votes on shareholder proposals in 
our stewardship efforts around sustainability
Investment management Measurement and transparency
Incorporating the impacts of climate change into capital  Publishing a temperature alignment metric for ETFs 
market assumptions, the cornerstone for portfolio  and mutual funds for markets with sufficiently reliable 
construction at BlackRock data
Implementing a framework for managing securities that  Publishing the proportion of our AUM that are 
pose significant climate risk in active portfolios  currently aligned to net zero, and announcing an 
interim target on the proportion of our AUM that will be 
Helping clients benefit from opportunities created by the 
aligned to net zero in 2030, for markets with 
energy transition
sufficiently reliable data
Launching investment products with explicit 
Through Aladdin Climate, helping more investors 
temperature alignment goals, including products aligned 
manage and meet their climate objectives by tracking 
to a net zero pathway
investment portfolios’ trajectories toward net zero, and 
helping to catalyse increasingly robust and 
standardized climate data and metrics to better serve 
the industry
BlackRock 2021 TCFD Report 8
B Key Points in Response to TCFD Recommendations
al
c
k
R
o Pillar / Recommendation Key Points
c
k
 
2
0 Governance: Disclose the organization’s governance around climate-related risks and opportunities
2
1
T  Oversight of near-and long-term business strategy (including sustainability) by BlackRock's Board of Directors 
C (the “Board”)
F
D
  Board Nominating, Governance & Sustainability Committee of BlackRock’s Board of Directors oversees 
R Describe the board’s oversight of climate-related risks and 
e investment stewardship, public policy, corporate sustainability, and social impact
p opportunities
o
r Board Risk Committee assists the Board in overseeing, identifying, and reviewing enterprise, fiduciary, and other 
t risks, including those related to climate and other sustainability risks, that could have a material impact on the 
firm’s performance
Global Executive Committee(“GEC”) sets the strategic vision and priorities of the firm and drives accountability, 
Describe management’s role in assessing and managing climate- including related to BlackRock’s sustainability strategy
related risks and opportunities
GEC Investment Sub-Committee oversees the firm’s investment processes, including ESG integration
Strategy: Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy,and financial planning 
where such information is material
Opportunities: increased demand for sustainable investment products and Aladdin, operating efficiencies
Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the 
organization has identified over the short, medium, and long term
Risks: market, regulatory, and reputational risks, as well as physical risks
Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on  Management of climate-related risks and opportunities is embedded across investment processes, business 
the organization’s businesses, strategy, and financial planning strategy, and operations
Describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking into  BlackRock conducted a climate-related scenario analysis exercise, leveraging Aladdin Climate analytics, to 
consideration different climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C  understand the potential implications of climate-related physical and transition risk scenarios to BlackRock’s 
or lower scenario business strategy over the short-, medium-, and long-term
The primary means by which BlackRock incorporates climate-related risks and opportunities into investment 
processes is through ESG integration and investment stewardship. BlackRock portfolio managers are 
Describe how risks and opportunities are factored into relevant  accountable for identifying material climate-and other sustainability-related risks and opportunities in their 
products or investment strategies and describe related transition  portfolios. Please refer to BlackRock’s 2020 Sustainability Disclosure(Item FN-AC-410a.2) for additional 
impact* information on ESG Integration at BlackRock. Please seeBlackRock’s 2020 Sustainability Disclosure(Item FN-
AC-410a.3) and the BIS 2020 Investment Stewardship Annual Reportfor an overview of investment stewardship 
at BlackRock.
*Reflects recommendations that are included in the Supplemental Guidance for Asset Managers, which incorporates updates to the guidance for the financial sector released by the TCFD in 2021 
(https://assets.bbhub.io/company/sites/60/2021/07/2021-TCFD-Implementing_Guidance.pdf) 
9
B Pillar / Recommendation Key Points
al
c
k Risk Management: Disclose how the organization identifies, assesses, and manages climate-related risks
R
o
c Describe the organization’s processes for identifying and assessing  For risks in client portfolios, investment teams are the primary risk owners, or first line of defense. BlackRock’s risk 
k
  climate-related risk management team, Risk & Quantitative Analysis (“RQA”), serves as a key part of the second line of defense. RQA 
2
0 evaluates material ESG risks, including climate risk, during its regular reviews with portfolio managers to provide 
2 Describe the organization’s processes for managing climate-related  oversight of portfolio managers’ consideration of these risks in their investment processes. This helps to ensure 
1 risks
T  that such risks are understood, deliberate, and consistent with client objectives. BlackRock Sustainable Investing 
C Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and managing  (“BSI”) partners with RQA to monitor and review ESG risk exposure at the portfolio level, providing rigor and 
F
D climate-related risks are integrated into the organization’s overall  consistency across our diverse investment platform, while seeking to ensure that risk taking is deliberate, 
R  risk management diversified, scaled, and in line with the clients’ objectives. ESG risks are evaluated in operational processes, 
pe including considering ESG risks in risk and control self-assessments, product development, and incident 
o Describe how material climate-related risks are identified, assessed  management. Risks associated with ESG investment and operational processes are represented in risk profiles 
tr and managed for each product or investment strategy.*  shared with risk oversight committees.
BIS has engaged with companies for several years on TCFD-aligned reporting. In 2021, BIS expanded the Climate 
Focus Universe to over 1,000 carbon-intensive companies. For companies in the Climate Focus Universe, BIS 
Describe engagement activity with investee companies to encourage 
assesses their climate action plans and risk disclosures voting against management when BIS believes accelerated 
better disclosure and practices related to climate-related risks in 
progress is necessary. Between July 1, 2020 and June 30, 2021 (the “2020-2021 proxy year”), BIS had over 1,300 
order to improve data availability and asset managers’ ability to 
engagements with nearly 670 of the companies in the 2021 Climate Focus Universe. BIS voted against 255 
assess climate-related risks*
directors and 319 companies for climate-related concerns that in BIS’ view could negatively affect shareholder 
value during the 2020-2021 proxy year. 
Metrics & Targets: Disclose the metrics and targets used to assess and manage relevant climate-related risks and opportunities where such information is material
Disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess climate-
Categories of metrics: Business Indicators, Corporate GHG Emissions, Firm-Level Climate Metrics for BlackRock’s 
related risks and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk 
AUM, Product-Level Sustainability Characteristics
management process
Varies by investment strategy. Investment teams develop views on materiality of specific sustainability-related 
Describe metrics used to assess climate-related risks and  topics by considering BlackRock’s proprietary ESG research, as well as research from a variety of external sources. 
opportunities in each product or investment strategy* BlackRock has developed proprietary measurement tools to deepen portfolio manager understanding of material 
ESG risks including climate risks. 
Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse 
See Exhibit M.3. BlackRock reports Scope 1, 2, and all relevant categories of Scope 3 emissions. 
gas (GHG) emissions, and the related risks
Asset managers should disclose GHG emissions for their AUM and 
WACI for each product or investment strategy, where data and  See Exhibit M.6. This TCFD report marks the first time that BlackRock is reporting preliminary estimates reflecting 
methodologies allow. Asset managers should consider providing  the absolute emissions and the carbon footprint  associated with BlackRock’s AUM in corporate securities and real 
other carbon footprinting metrics they believe are useful for  estate. 
decision-making.*
Asset managers should describe the extent to which their assets  BlackRock publishes weighted-average carbon intensity (“WACI”) and implied temperature rise (“ITR”), on product 
under management and products and investment strategies, where  pages of our website for ETFs and mutual funds where reliable data are available. As of December 2021, one or 
relevant, are aligned with a well below more climate-related metrics are publicly available on product pages for $2.8 trillion in AUM managed by BlackRock 
2°C scenario, using whichever approach or metrics best suit their  (note holdings values as of September 30, 2021).
organizational context  or capabilities.*
In January 2021, BlackRock announced a series of commitments focused on supporting clients in the global 
Describe the targets used by the organization to manage climate-
transition to net zero, around three themes: (i) measurement and transparency; (ii) investment management; and 
related risks and opportunities and performance against targets
(iii) investment stewardship. Also see Exhibit M.2 for progress towards environmental targets for operations.
1
0 *Reflects recommendations that are included in the TCFD Supplemental Guidance for Asset Managers, which incorporates updates to the guidance for the financial sector released by the TCFD in 2021 
(https://assets.bbhub.io/company/sites/60/2021/07/2021-TCFD-Implementing_Guidance.pdf) 
Governance
Disclose the organization’s governance around climate-related 
risks and opportunities. 
Effective corporate governance is critical to executing on  sustainability, and social impact. The NGSCperiodically 
BlackRock’s strategy, fulfilling its responsibilities to clients,  reviews corporate and investment stewardship-related 
and delivering for stakeholders. BlackRock’s commitment  policies and programs, as well as significant publications 
to good corporate governance with respect to climate and  relating to environmental (including climate change), 
sustainability-related1 matters reflects BlackRock’s  social, and other sustainability matters. As appropriate, the 
commitment to strong leadership and effective oversight by  NGSCmay make recommendations on these matters to be 
BlackRock’s senior management and Board of Directors.  reviewed by the full Board. The NGSCalso periodically 
BlackRock’s Governance Overview and Corporate  reviews public policy and advocacy activities, including 
Governance Guidelinesprovide more information on  lobbying priorities, political contributions, and 
BlackRock’s Corporate Governance framework, including  memberships in trade associations, as well as the 
the role and responsibilities of the Board of Directors. philanthropic programs of the firm and related strategies.
Board Oversight In 2021, the NGSCdiscussed BIS’ updated engagement 
priorities, which included asking companies to disclose a 
BlackRock’s Board of Directors (“Board”) engages with  plan for how their business models will be compatible with 
senior leaders on near-and long-term business strategy  a low-carbon economy, an increased focus on natural 
and reviews management’s performance in delivering on  capital risks, and BIS’ approach to voting on environmental 
BlackRock’s framework for long-term value creation.  and social shareholder proposals. Additionally, BlackRock’s 
Sustainability, including climate-related issues –from the  Global Public Policy Group (“GPPG”) and Corporate 
integration of ESG factors into the firm’s investment  Sustainability teams presented to the NGSCon governance 
processes, to sustainable investment strategies and  enhancements with respect to the firm’s external activities, 
investment stewardship priorities –is a critical component  including a review of the alignment of trade association 
of the firm’s overall business strategy and the objectives of  positions on material and strategic public policy issues, 
senior management over which the Board has oversight.  including climate policy and sustainability disclosure 
regulations. Finally, the NGSCreviewed and discussed the 
The Board holds six regularly scheduled meetings per year 
Corporate Sustainability team’s priorities and progress in 
during which the Board’s committees also meet. In 2021, 
2021, including on advancing BlackRock’s environmental 
the full Board reviewed and discussed aspects of 
sustainability strategy and corporate sustainability 
BlackRock’s climate and sustainability-related strategy 
disclosures.
during five out of the six meetings. These reviews and 
discussions covered elements of the firm’s commitment to  BlackRock’s Board has responsibility for oversight of risk 
supporting the global goal of net zero emissions by 2050 or  management activities. The Risk Committee of the Board of 
sooner, including steps BlackRock is taking to help clients  Directors (“Risk Committee”) assists the Board in 
prepare their portfolios for a net zero world, as well as  overseeing, identifying, and reviewing enterprise, fiduciary, 
BlackRock’s approach to expanding sustainable investment  and other risks, including those related to climate and other 
solutions, ongoing ESG integration efforts, and the  sustainability risks, that could have a material impact on 
investment stewardship team’s engagement on  the firm’s performance. In 2021, the Risk Committee 
environmental and social issues. reviewed and discussed the incorporation of ESG
considerations into the firm’s risk management processes, 
The Nominating, Governance & Sustainability Committee of 
a framework for active investment portfolios, ESG risks 
BlackRock’s Board of Directors ("NGSC”) oversees 
associated with new business activities and new products, 
investment stewardship, public policy, corporate
and regulatory risk relating to sustainability. 
BlackRock 2021 TCFD Report 11
Management Oversight 
BlackRock’s senior management oversees progress towards BlackRock’s strategic objectives, including climate- and 
sustainability-related objectives. Exhibit G.1 provides an overview of the management committees that share responsibility 
for management of various climate and other sustainability-related risks and opportunities.  
Exhibit G.1: Sustainability-Related Management Committees
Management 
Sustainability-RelatedResponsibilities
Committee
• Led by the CEO, the GEC sets the strategic vision and priorities of the firm and drives accountability at all levels. 
Global 
• In 2021, the GEC sent a letter to clients outlining steps BlackRock is taking to help investors prepare their 
Executive 
portfolio for a net zeroworld. 
Committee 
• Actively involved in the development of, and receives regular updates on, BlackRock’s sustainability strategy, 
(“GEC”)
including progress towards delivering upon the firm’s net zero commitments. 
Investment  • Oversees investment process consistency across the firm’s investment groups. 
Sub-Committee  • Members include the Chief Risk Officer and global heads or sponsors of all major investment divisions
of the GEC • Oversees ESG integration in BlackRock’s investment processes.
Functional Groups
In practice, sustainability is integrated into different business units across the firm. Several teams focus on sustainability, 
while others integrate sustainability into their broader functional responsibilities.
Exhibit G.2: Functional Groups Involved in Climate & Sustainability-Related Matters
Management 
Team Sustainability-Related  Responsibilities
Reporting Line
Sustainability-Focused Teams
BlackRock  • Engagement and proxy voting with investee companies on behalf of clients Global Head of BIS is a GEC 
Investment  • Promotes sound corporate governance and sustainable business models  member 
Stewardship (“BIS”) that can help drive long-term financial returns
BlackRock  • Partners with investment teams to deliver sustainable investment products Global Head of BSI reports to a 
Sustainable  • Works cross-functionally to advance ESG research and ESG integration Vice Chairman (GEC member)
Investing (“BSI”)
Corporate  • Oversees efforts to manage environmental sustainability of corporate  Chief Corporate Sustainability 
Sustainability operations including setting environmental targets for operations Officer reports to Global Head 
• Implements corporate sustainability disclosures of External Affairs (GEC 
member)
Sustainability Integrated into Broader Functional Responsibilities
Investment  • Accountable for ESG integration into investment processes  Heads of investment divisions 
Divisions • Often have sustainability-focused units, (i.e., BlackRock Alternative  are members of GEC and GEC 
Investment Sustainability team, Fixed Income ESG Investment team) Investment Sub-Committee
Risk & Quantitative  • BlackRock’s risk management function Chief Risk Officer is a member 
Analysis Group  • Discuss material ESG risks (including climate) during reviews with active  of GEC and GEC Investment 
(“RQA”) strategy portfolio managers to provide oversight of ESG Integration Sub-Committee
Aladdin • Integrates climate and ESG data, as well as physical and transition risk  Global Head of Aladdin is a 
analytics into investors’ workflows delivered through Aladdin member of GEC
Enterprise Services  • Health & Safety monitors adherence to local environmental regulations Global Head of ES reports to 
(“ES”)  • Real Estate and Facilities teams implement sustainability efforts in offices Global Head of Technology & 
• Business Continuity Management manages disaster recovery planning,  Operations (GEC member)
strategy, and crisis management activities
BlackRock 2021 TCFD Report 12
Exhibit G.3: Governance Structure, Sustainability
BlackRock  • The Board oversees long-term strategy in which BlackRock’s sustainability and 
climate-related strategies are integral components
Board of 
• Risk Committee aids Board in overseeing risk (including ESG risks) 
Directors
• NGSC oversees Investment Stewardship, Public Policy, Corporate 
Sustainability, and Social Impact
Global 
Oversees sustainability strategy; Investment sub-committee oversees 
Executive 
investment process consistency including ESG integration
Committee
Sustainability-Focused Teams
BlackRock Investment Stewardship
Engages with companies in client portfolios on sustainability and governance matters, 
casts proxy votes
BlackRock Sustainable Investing
ESG integration Sustainable Solutions Research & Insights Data & Analytics
Works closely with RQAto drive high-quality ESG integration across investment teams
Corporate Sustainability 
Develops and oversees environmental sustainability strategy for operations, collects and 
reports corporate GHGemissions data; develops climate-related disclosures
Sustainability Integrated into Broader Functional Responsibilities
Investment Divisions Risk and Quantitative Analysis
ETFs and Index Investments, Portfolio  Oversight of investment, counterparty, and 
Management Group, Global Trading &  enterprise risks including ESG risks
Transition Management, and BlackRock 
Alternative Investors
Aladdin Enterprise Services 
Delivers ESG and climate data, analytics,  Business Continuity Management team 
models, and tools into investors’ daily  manages business continuity risks, Corporate 
workflows Real Estate and Facilities teams implement 
environmental sustainability initiatives in 
coordination with Corporate Sustainability, 
Health and Safety team monitors local 
environmental regulations
BlackRock 2021 TCFD Report 13
Strategy
Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and 
opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy, and 
financial planning, where such information is material 
Asset owners and asset managers alike have heightened  transition and worked over the course of the year to 
their commitments to support the global transition to net  implement those commitments (progress shown on page 
zero. To put this in perspective, GFANZ now represents over  8).
450 financial firms responsible for assets of roughly $130 
BlackRock also recognizes that different clients have 
trillion committed to accelerating the decarbonization of the 
different investment preferences and objectives. We 
economy.1 In addition, over 3,000 companies and investors 
continue to believe strongly in the power of providing choice 
have committed to net zero through the Race to Zero, a 
to clients. This includes offering a wide range of investment 
global coalition for climate action as of November 2021.
products to help clients meet their investment goals, 
BlackRock recognizes the critical importance of adapting its  including those that incorporate climate change and other 
business to reflect this intensified global focus on net zero  ESG considerations in different ways and to different 
by its clients, as well as governments and policy makers  degrees. BlackRock believes that it is this commitment to 
around the world. Additionally, BlackRock must consider all  providing choice that supports the firm’s resilience to 
matters that are material to its clients’ long-term financial  different climate scenarios. 
returns, consistent with their investment objectives, 
This section discusses how climate-related risks and 
including climate-related risks and opportunities. That is 
opportunities are managed by BlackRock with an emphasis 
why in January 2021, BlackRock announced commitments 
on new developments in 2021. Exhibit S.1 provides an 
to help investors prepare their portfolios for a net zero world, 
overview. 
including capturing opportunities created by the net zero 
Exhibit S.1: Overview of Strategy to Address Climate-Related Risks & Opportunities
As an ASSET MANAGER As a COMPANY
Sustainable Investment Solutions Corporate Operations
Expanding offerings of sustainable investment products Reducing the environmental footprint of our operations
Investment Stewardship Vendor Sustainability
Engagement & proxy voting on material climate and  Encouraging vendors to set science-aligned emissions 
natural capital issues reduction targets
ESG Integration & Insights Public Policy & Industry Engagement
Incorporating material climate considerations into active  Encouraging standards and regulations for climate 
investment decisions & ESG Research disclosures
Aladdin The BlackRock Foundation
Putting sustainability at the heart of Aladdin and  Supporting critical climate technologies through 
developing Aladdin Climate philanthropy
COMMITMENT TO TRANSPARENCY at firm and fund level
BlackRock 2021 TCFD Report 14
ESG Integration
The primary means by which BlackRock incorporates  disclose material sustainability risks. Please refer to 
climate-related risks and opportunities into investment  BlackRock’s SASB-aligned 2020 Sustainability Disclosure
processes are through ESG integration and investment  (Item FN-AC-410a.2) for additional information on ESG 
stewardship. BlackRock portfolio managers are accountable  Integration at BlackRock.
for identifying material sustainability-related risks and 
As an advancement to its existing ESG integration efforts, in 
opportunities –including climate-related considerations–in 
2021, BlackRock established a framework to monitor 
their portfolios. Investment teams develop views on the 
exposures to issuers that may present significant climate 
materiality of specific sustainability-related topics by 
risk in active portfolios. While many issuers are effectively 
considering BlackRock’s proprietary ESG research, as well 
preparing for the global transition towards a net zero 
as research from a variety of external sources. In addition,  economy, others that are not adequately preparing may 
BlackRock has developed proprietary measurement tools to  present a risk to BlackRock’s clients’ portfolios, which 
deepen portfolio manager understanding of material ESG  BlackRock monitors closely. Conversely, companies that 
risks including climate risks. In BlackRock’s index  distinguish themselves in terms of their transition 
investments business, the firm works with index providers to  preparedness and governance may represent investment 
expand and improve the universe of sustainable indexes,  and/or alpha opportunities for BlackRock’s clients.
and our investment stewardship processes encourage the 
companies in which our clients are invested to manage and 
Investment Stewardship
As a long-term investor on behalf of our clients, BlackRock’s  BIS’ Engagement Priorities reflected a continuing emphasis 
conviction is that sustainability risk –and climate risk in  on board effectiveness alongside the impact of 
particular –is investment risk, and that every company will  sustainability-related factors on a company’s ability to 
be affected by the transition to a net zero economy. BIS  generate long-term financial returns. “Climate and Natural 
encourages sound corporate governance and sustainable  Capital” is one of BIS’ engagement priorities. In 2021, BIS 
business models that can help drive the long-term financial  sought to understand how companies are mitigating 
returns that enable BlackRock’s clients to meet their  climate-related risks  and implementing plans to transition 
investing goals. BIS does this by engaging with investee  to a low-carbon economy. BIS also encouraged companies 
companies and proxy voting on BlackRock’s clients’ behalf.  to consider their impact and dependence on natural capital2
BIS’ approach on these issues is summarized in Exhibit S.2. 
Exhibit S.2: BIS’ approach to Climate Risk and Natural Capital 
Climate Risk Natural Capital
In 2021, BIS asked companies to articulate how their  In 2021, BIS released a commentary on its approach 
business model is aligned to a scenario in which  to natural capital, encouraging companies to disclose 
global warming is limited to well below 2°C,  how their business models are consistent with the 
consistent with a global aspiration to reach net zero  sustainable use and management of natural capital, 
emissions by 2050. BIS also encouraged companies  including natural resources such as air, water, land, 
to provide disclosure aligned with the TCFD, including  minerals, and forests. BIS also sought to understand 
Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. Companies in  how companies promote biodiversity and ecosystem 
carbon-intensive industries were also encouraged  health and the responsible use of energy, as well their 
disclose Scope 3 emissions. impact on communities in which they operate. 
BlackRock 2021 TCFD Report 15
Climate Focus Universe. In 2020, BIS focused on a  should be noted that BIS supported some shareholder 
universe of 440 carbon intensive companies. BIS identified  proposals where a company was on track but the team 
244 companies within this universe that did not meet BIS’  wanted to encourage accelerated progress on either 
standards of managing climate-related risks or adequately  actions or reporting. Other votes reflected BIS’ view that 
addressing exposure to such risks.3In 2021, BIS expanded  management could have better managed climate-
the Climate Focus Universe to over 1,000 carbon-intensive  related risks and/or reported on one or more of the 
following factors:
public companies.4For companies in the Climate Focus 
• Disclosures that address all four pillars of the TCFD 
Universe,BIS reviews their climate action plans and 
framework
disclosures –voting against management when BIS 
believes that accelerated progress towards climate risk  • Reporting on Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions data
mitigation is necessary to drive sustainable, long-term  • Setting short-, medium-, and long-term GHG 
financial returns for clients. Between July 1, 2020 and June  emissions reduction targets
30, 2021 (the “2020-2021 proxy year”), BIS had over 1,300 
BIS’ climate-related votes on behalf of clients in the 
engagements with nearly 670 of the companies in the 2021 
2020-2021 proxy year reflect a focus on sectors where 
Climate Focus Universe. 
climate change and other sustainability factors pose the 
Climate-related voting on behalf of clients. Voting is how  greatest risk to those companies’ business operations 
BIS signals support for or raises concerns with a company  and performance. When BIS voted against management 
to achieve an outcome that BIS believes is most aligned  to signal its concern that further progress on climate-
with BlackRock’s clients’ long-term economic interests.  related issues is needed, it did so in the long-term 
Where BIS identifies concerns, the team may vote against  economic interests of BlackRock’s clients. BIS will 
directors or other management proposals, or in support of a  continue to engage all companies, with a particular 
shareholder proposal. Votes on director elections are a  focus on those in the Climate Focus Universe, to 
globally available mechanism for signaling concern and  encourage further action and enhanced disclosures to 
one that BIS employs more frequently than votes on  assess these companies’ preparedness to navigate the 
shareholder proposals. transition to net zero. Exhibit S.3 highlights 
engagement and voting statistics for climate-related 
Over the 2020-2021 proxy year, votes cast against directors 
concerns across investee companies for the 2020-2021 
or in support of climate-related shareholder proposals 
proxy year.
generally reflected concerns that companies had not 
adequately addressed climate-related risks. Though it 
Exhibit S.3: Engagement and Voting for climate-related concerns
2,330 107 2% 255 319
Engagements on climate  Votes against companies  Votes against  Votes against director  Unique companies voted 
and natural capital for inadequate  management on climate  elections for climate- against for climate -
sustainability reporting risk concerns at  related concernsa related concernsb
approximately 2% of the 
13,190 companies BIS 
voted at on behalf of 
BlackRock’s clients.
Source: BlackRock and Institutional Shareholder Services (“ISS”). ISS classifications used. Sourced on July 8, 2021, reflecting data from July 1, 2020 through June 30, 2021. For more 
information refer to BIS’ 2021 Voting Spotlight “Pursuing long-term value for our clients” Available at: https://www.blackrock.com/corporate/literature/publication/2021-voting-
spotlight-full-report.pdf.   aAbstentions are included   bAbstentions are included. Votes against unique companies on climate include: i) votes against or abstain on director elections and 
director-related proposals, and ii) votes in support or abstain on climate-related shareholder proposals
BlackRock 2021 TCFD Report 16
Investment Strategies
An estimated $50 trillion to $100 trillion in capital  1. The launch in April 2021 of two active sustainable ETFs 
investment is required to reach net zero by mid-century, a  focused on investing in companies that BlackRock 
massive shift that will affect the long-term profitability of  believes are better positioned to benefit from the 
companies, industries, and whole economic sectors.5 transition to a low carbon economy.8
Investment solutions that can help BlackRock’s clients 
2. The launch of a range of  Paris Aligned Benchmark 
better manage climate-related risks to their portfolios and 
products in Europe in April 2021. 
benefit from or contribute to the energy transition are, 
therefore, amongst the greatest climate-related  3. The application of Climate Transition Benchmarks to 
opportunities for BlackRock. BlackRock’s ESG enhanced suite in Europe in 
November 2021.9
BlackRock’s capital markets assumptions (“CMAs”) are 
long-run estimates of risk and return that can be used as  Further, BlackRock’s ETFs & Index Investments team (“EII”) 
building blocks for portfolio construction. In 2021,  works to promote greater standardization and transparency 
BlackRock enhanced its CMAs to incorporate climate  of sustainability benchmark methodologies. Several of 
considerations. Underpinning our new CMAs is the view that  BlackRock’s sustainable ETFs are the result of engagement  
avoiding climate change damages will help drive economic  with major index providers to develop sustainable versions 
growth and offer investors better returns over the long-term.  of flagship indexes.10These products differ from more 
Climate change and the transition to net zero are expected  traditional index solutions in that they provide investors 
to be persistent drivers of asset returns, and consequently  access to major benchmark exposures while helping them 
fundamental to making strategic investment decisions. 6 incorporate climate considerations into their portfolios.11
Additionally, EIIhas published temperature alignment 
Over the past few years, BlackRock has significantly 
metrics for ETFs and IMFs where data is sufficient (see page 
expanded the number of sustainable investment strategies 
46 for more detail).
available to clients. For example, in 2021 BlackRock 
launched nine new funds and repurposed seven equity and 
Active Investment Strategies12
fixed income funds with clearly articulated ESGcriteria 
embedded in their investment mandates and objectives. As 
As the world transitions to a low carbon economy, 
of September 30, 2021, BlackRock managed $434 billion in 
sustainability-oriented data and climate-related insights 
dedicated sustainable investment strategies7 on behalf of 
are increasingly important to help uncover the catalysts 
its clients. 
that could drive asset values over the long-term. BlackRock 
In the first three quarters of 2021, BlackRock saw nearly $64  manages active investment strategies across a range of 
billion of net inflows into sustainable investment strategies,  asset classes including: (i) equities; (ii) fixed income; and   
representing 27% of total long-term net inflows over the  (iii) multi-asset strategies. In 2021, BlackRock expanded its 
same time period.These solutions include a variety of  active investment lineup to incorporate a greater range of 
products and strategies that support the transition to a low- sustainable investment strategies. Below are some 
carbon economy.  examples of the active investment strategies that 
incorporate climate-related considerations:
ETFs & Index Investments 
Fundamental Equity.In fundamental active equities (“FE”), 
BlackRock’s approach to sustainable investing is an 
Sustainable ETFs remain one of the fastest growing 
inclusive one, anchored on the recognition that a diverse 
segments within the ETF market. In 2021, iShares® 
range of investment strategies are necessary to tackle the 
launched 60 sustainable ETFs and index mutual funds 
significant sustainability issues that we face globally. FE 
(“IMFs”) across the US, Europe, Asia-Pacific, and Canada –
uses fundamental expert insights and employs an 
well exceeding BlackRock’s goal of doubling sustainable 
interdisciplinary toolkit to construct portfolios addressing 
ETF offerings to 150 in total for the year. As of September 
clients’ needs and helping them achieve their sustainable 
30, 2021, iShares® had over 200 sustainable index offerings 
goals. The FE platform manages three main types of 
globally. Some examples of advancements made to the 
sustainable investment strategies:
sustainable ETFs landscape include:
BlackRock 2021 TCFD Report 17
• Core. Core Fundamental Sustainable Equityinvests  (“LEED”) certifications17often demonstrate greater 
across the market in companies that FE believes can  operational efficiency and subsequently exhibit better 
lead in a more sustainable world. In 2021, BlackRock  financial outcomes. The LEED buildings themselves result 
launched eight funds within its Core Fundamental  in better environmental outcomes for the communities in 
Sustainable Equity range, which aims to deliver long- which they operate. These types of sustainable alpha 
term outperformance with measurable sustainable  signals—which aim to deliver returns while also improving 
outcomes, specifically better ESG scores and lower  environmental and social outcomes—are a key focus of 
carbon emissions versus benchmarks. The funds invest  BSYS sustainable research.
in three types of companies: (i) Leaders: “best-in-class” 
Sustainable Research Framework. BlackRock developed a 
companies that effectively manage ESG factors;               
sustainable research framework to measure the 
(ii) Improvers: companies showing demonstrable 
sustainability (including climate) characteristics of 
progress in their ESG journey; and (iii) Enablers: 
companies through an investment materiality lens. This 
companies advancing the transition and/or innovating 
framework aims to deliver exposure to sustainability 
towards sustainable solutions, which may have revenues 
attributes that are material to enterprise value creation by 
aligned to the United Nations (“UN”) Sustainable 
aggregating a collection of sustainability-related key 
Development Goals (“SDGs”).
performance indicators,18selected for their financial 
• Thematic. The FE Thematics & Sector team invests  materiality, into a normalized score to compare companies 
around specific sustainability themes including  based on such attributes. The framework is rooted in 
measuring the alignment of investments to the UN  BlackRock’s investment conviction that sustainable 
SDGs. For example, in October 2019, the Thematics &  business practices can lead to higher risk-adjusted 
Sector team launched a circular economy investment  performance over the long term. The analytics powered by 
strategy in partnership with the Ellen MacArthur  this framework have been deployed in Aladdin, which 
Foundation (“EMF”)13 to complement its existing range  alongside other internal analytics and third-party datasets, 
of sustainable, fundamental, thematic funds. EMF is a  equip BlackRock’s investment teams with sustainable 
global thought leader that works to accelerate the  research inputs and investment decision-useful tools. This 
transition to a Circular Economy.14At its core, the  sustainable research framework can also help position 
Circular Economy strategy helps BlackRock’s clients put  portfolios to seek outperformance through sustainable 
their money to work in support of the transition to a  insights by targeting relevant datasets and providing a 
circular economy, as well as in businesses that are  framework to prioritize material environmental, including 
evolving to a more sustainable way of operating.  climate, and social issues in different sectors.
• Impact. BlackRock’s FE Impact team seeks to invest in 
Active Fixed Income. The need for sustainable fixed 
companies whose core products and services address 
income solutions is pressing. Many large investors, such as 
social and environmental challenges as identified by the 
insurers and pension funds, hold the bulk of their assets in 
UN SDGs. The team manages US, International, and 
fixed income. Fixed income encompasses many different 
Global Impact strategies. In May 2021, the FE Impact 
asset classes, with varying degrees of sustainability 
team published its inaugural Global Impact Report, 
information available for each asset class. BlackRock’s 
which describes the team’s innovative approach to 
Fixed Income ESG Team works with sector teams within 
impact investing in public equities. Climate-related 
BlackRock’s Fixed Income team (“FI”) to identify relevant 
highlights from this report include the generation of over 
ESG characteristics and to develop tools to aid this process. 
102,000 GWh of renewable energy by companies in 
The FI platform has developed a proprietary sustainability 
which the Global Impact strategy invested.15
categorization that focuses on positive and negative 
Systematic Strategies. The BlackRock Systematic team  externalities across fixed income asset classes. This 
(“BSYS”) manages sustainable strategies across three main  framework drives several dedicated active ESG strategies, 
categories: (i) core equity and fixed income ESG strategies,  including four new public fund offerings launched in 2021. 
(ii) multi-asset strategies, and (iii) liquid alternative ESG 
Further, the FI team has developed approaches within 
strategies. In 2021, BSYS launched a long-short equity 
certain pools of assets to identify fixed income impact 
product based on a sustainable universe with sustainable 
opportunities. This currently includes strategies in US 
alpha signals. In systematic sustainable funds, BSYS does 
municipal bonds and mortgages, as well as green and 
not divest from specific sectors, rather the team tilts to 
social bonds across developed market and emerging 
more sustainable companies within each sector.
markets. The Fixed Income ESG team has developed a 
BSYS also produces research on a variety of topics  proprietary shading taxonomy for green and social bonds, 
including climate-related insights. In research published in  which is utilized by active teams to understand the degree 
2021,16BSYS found that companies operating buildings  of impact inherent in a use of proceeds structure. FI has 
with Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design  been producing quantifiable Green Bond impact reports on 
green bond funds since 2018.
BlackRock 2021 TCFD Report 18
Spotlight on Green Bonds
The green and social bond market is steadily growing, helping raise funds for projects that have positive 
environmental or social impact. More than $3 trillion in sustainable bonds have been issued since these 
securities first emerged in 2007, according to research company BloombergNEF.19BlackRock is heavily 
involved in and supportive of the green bond market. As of September 30, 2021, BlackRock managed over 
$36 billion, on behalf of clients, in green bonds across dedicated portfolios and as a component of 
broader fixed income mandates. These bonds support numerous renewables and low-carbon projects. 
BlackRock’s Head of Fixed Income ESG Investing sits on the Executive Committee of the Green Bond 
Principles and the firm is a partner of the Climate Bonds Initiative. A green bond is a fixed income 
instrument dedicated to new or existing projects deemed environmentally beneficial.20Green bonds’ 
proceeds are ring-fenced on the issuer’s balance sheet to finance these green projects. Since green 
bonds trade like ordinary bonds and have secondary market liquidity, they serve as a valuable tool that 
enables investors to fund green projects without taking on the more limited liquidity or credit risk that 
comes with directly investing in infrastructure projects. 
Investors want to know that green bonds deliver their intended environmental benefits. They want to 
measure how their investments contribute to their environmental objectives and/or report the 
environmental benefits to their end-investors, plan participants, or customers. BlackRock has developed 
portfolio-level impact reporting for a green bond strategy –an illustrative example of which is shown in 
Exhibit S.4. The reporting includes carbon emissions avoided, renewable capacity installed, and energy 
savings attributable to green bond investments in the portfolio.
Exhibit S.4: Impact Report for Green Bond Strategy
Example Impact Report for Green Bond Strategy (Environmental Impact per USD 1 million invested) 
1,843 tCO /yearof avoided emissions 1,073 MWh/year of renewable energy generated
2
Equivalent to taking 398 cars off the road Equivalent to annual electricity use of 87.5 homes
441 m3 / year of water savings
253 MWh/year of energy savings
Equivalent to 1/6 of an Olympic-sized 
swimming pool Equivalent to 6,796 light bulbs switched to LEDs
38 hectares of land area re/afforested 6,350 m3/year of water or waste collected and disposed
or preserved or treated
Equivalent to 54.3 football fields Equivalent to 3.2 Olympic-sized swimming pools
169 people benefitting from forest, 
9,835 new passengers/year on public transit
agriculture, water or waste projects
214 minutes saveddue to better public transit
5 jobs created across all categories
Sources: BlackRock analysis of publicly available environmental impact reports as communicated by issuers as of 18 May 2020. The above results are shown for informational purposes 
only, to illustrate the positive environmental impact of a green bond portfolio. They are not meant to be a prediction or projection.  Not every issuer reports on every metric, hence no linear 
extrapolation should be performed. BlackRock is not held responsible for inaccuracies in issuers’ reporting; methodology available upon request.  US EPA’s Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies 
Calculator for CO2 and energy measures. Other assumptions: 1 Olympic pool = 2,500 m3 of water; 1 football = 7,000 m
BBllaacckkRRoocckk  22002211  TTCCFFDD  RReeppoorrtt 19
Private Market Alternatives Renewable Power Infrastructure. BlackRock believes the 
strategies managed by BlackRock’s Global Infrastructure 
Private market investments, such as infrastructure, real  Equity teams, which are part of the broader Real Assets 
estate, private credit, and private equity, benefit not only  team, are well positioned to support the global energy 
our clients, but can also directly drive positive impacts on  transition, as the world moves from a power generation 
the local communities where such investments are  sector historically dominated by fossil fuels, to one that is 
situated, as well as the individuals who work on the  expected to comprise over 60% renewables by 2050.21
development, operation, and management of such  BlackRock views this opportunity as the largest, single 
investments. structural shift taking place in infrastructure globally, and 
one that has the potential to create $10 trillion of 
BlackRock’s Real Assets platform has established 
investment opportunities in the next 3 years. 
investment strategies that address the global market 
opportunities presented by the energy transition. As an 
Beyond BlackRock’s dedicated global renewable power 
early mover in renewable power investing, BlackRock  strategies, BlackRock’s wider infrastructure investment 
manages one of the largest renewable power platforms in  strategies continue to recognize the investment 
the world. BlackRock’s Real Assets investment team 
opportunities emerging from the global energy transition. 
manages approximately $13.7 billion of invested and 
This includes natural gas, which the team believes has a 
committed capital supporting over 350 wind, solar, and 
role as a transition and peaking fuel, as well as the 
electric vehicles infrastructure projects globally. 
opportunities generated by emerging decarbonization 
infrastructure, such as carbon capture and storage, battery 
storage, energy efficiency, hydrogen, and electrified 
transportation. Exhibit S.5 provides an example of impact 
data for a sample Global Renewable Power portfolio.
Exhibit S.5: Sample Global Renewable Power Portfolio 
Dollarized  Impact 
Impact Metrics Projected over Time Horizon of Portfolioa
Impact (US$) Multiple b
6 Clean water and 
Water savings from renewable power generation
sanitation $650m c 0.24x
216,061,834m3water reduced
7 Affordable and clean  Homes powered with clean energy
energy 49,247,813 (lifetime)
1,834,094 (annual)
$ 3,487m d 1.26x
13 Climate action
Greenhouse gas emissions avoided
68,387,699 tons of CO emissions avoided
2
8 Decent work and  Jobs supported
$1,219m e 0.44x
economic growth 25,224 jobs
Portfolio Total $ 5,357m 1.94x
Source: BlackRock, September 30, 2021. 
a. Global Impact Investing Network (“GIIN”)’s Impact Reporting and Investment Standards (“IRIS”) metrics were leveraged to measure impact. For full set of SDG-aligned IRIS metrics, 
see: https://iris.thegiin.org/document/iris-and-u.n.-sustainable-development-goals/.
b. Impact Multiple for each metric = Dollarized Impact (USD) / total capital invested (USD) 
c. Dollarized water saved (USD) = Cost of water (USD/m3) * Total water saved over time horizon (m3). 
d. Dollarized CO2 emissions avoided (USD) = social cost of carbon (USD/metric ton) * total CO2 emissions avoided over time horizon (metric tons CO2). Social Cost of Carbon based on 
estimates from US Interagency Working Group on Social Cost of Greenhouse Gases, United States Government. Assuming 3% discount rate, adjusting 2007 dollars for inflation to 
obtain 2019 dollars. See https://19january2017snapshot.epa.gov/sites/production/files/2016-12/documents/sc_co2_tsd_august_2016.pdf 
e. Dollarized jobs created (USD) = Employee annual wages (USD) * time horizon (years) 
BlackRock 2021 TCFD Report 20
Climate Finance Partnership (“CFP”). In 2021, BlackRock  Cash Management
raised $673 million for the CFP bringing together 
governments, philanthropies, and institutional investors to  In 2019, BlackRock introduced a new fund series that seeks 
accelerate the flow of capital into climate infrastructure in  to offer the stability, liquidity, and yield potential of a money 
emerging markets. BlackRock and the founding catalytic  market fund while considering environmental criteria. Since 
launch, there has been significant global momentum 
partners designed a fund structure that seeks to bring their 
behind this series of environmental thematic cash 
collective skills and capabilities together to help mobilize 
management funds and, these strategies comprise over 
private investment into emerging markets through a de-
$19 billion in AUM. Available in USD, GBP, EUR, and CAD 
risking of the investment set for institutional investors. The 
currencies, the new fund series considers select 
structure seeks to provide a narrower standard deviation of 
environmental criteria in addition to BlackRock’s standard 
outcomes for institutional investors alongside access to the 
credit risk assessment process for liquidity management 
fastest growing infrastructure segment, and markets, of the 
portfolios. Since launching this series, BlackRock’s Cash 
next 30 years. CFP investments will be targeted in Asia, 
Management team has used a portion of its net 
Latin America, and Africa with a focus on the climate 
management fees from the fund in support of renewable 
infrastructure sector including: (i) grid connected and/or 
energy projects through the purchase of carbon credits. 
distributed renewable power generation; (ii) energy 
efficiency in residential, commercial, and/or industrial  Growing the field of sustainable cash offerings is not simply 
sectors; (iii) transmission or energy storage solutions; and  a function of new product offerings. BlackRock also actively 
(iv) ultra-low emission or electrified transportation and  engages with issuers of short-term bonds to develop 
mobility services. money market fund-eligible “green” securities. In late 2020, 
BlackRock’s Cash Management team invested on behalf of 
Partnership with Temasek on Decarbonization. In 2021, 
clients over $585 million in short-term green asset-backed 
BlackRock announced a partnership with Temasek to 
commercial paper developed by Credit Suisse to fund solar 
establish Decarbonization Partners, which plans to focus 
energy in the United States.23Opportunities such as this, 
on investments that advance decarbonization solutions 
via BlackRock’s global cash management funds, provide a 
through late-stage venture capital and early growth private 
source of short-term financing for sustainable projects –a 
equity investment funds.22The partnership will seek to 
crucial development towards advancing the sustainable 
make investments in early-stage growth companies 
cash management ecosystem and clearing the path for 
targeting proven, next generation renewable and mobility 
further environmentally-focused client investment 
technology including emerging fuel sources, grid solutions, 
opportunities.
battery storage, and electric and autonomous vehicle 
technologies, as well as in building and manufacturing 
sectors to drive decarbonization resource efficiencies, and 
material and process innovation. Together, BlackRock and 
Temasek have committed $600 million to invest in 
companies and proven technologies that could reduce and 
potentially eliminate carbon emissions.
BlackRock 2021 TCFD Report 21
Sustainability in Aladdin
Aladdin® is BlackRock’s end-to-end investment  Transition riskanalytics quantify risks and opportunities 
management and operations platform. The Aladdin platform  arising from exposure to the transition to a lower-carbon 
combines sophisticated risk analytics with portfolio  economy through policy changes, new technologies, and 
management, trading, and operations tools in a single,  market changes. This is complex to forecast because there 
unified environment.  are many potential transition paths the world could take. 
BlackRock acquired the Climate Change Scenario Model 
In 2020, BlackRock launched an initiative to build new 
from Baringa Partners in June 2021, which in combination 
sustainability-focused capabilities within Aladdin, with a 
with Aladdin financial models, enables Aladdin Climate to 
vision to power the shift to sustainable investing by 
deliver analytics on the effects of various transition 
integrating sustainability data, analytics, and functionalities 
pathways across different sectors. This allows Aladdin to 
into investors’ daily workflows to drive more informed 
develop more granular modeling of the impact of a 
investment and risk management.
transition to a net zero economy on specific investments. 
In 2021, BlackRock followed up by creating the Aladdin  Both physical and transition risk capabilities are now 
Sustainability Lab and accelerating the build out of Aladdin  available through Aladdin Climate.
Climate, a technology solution that seeks to translate 
Ultimately, Aladdin is seeking to fully support investment 
climate risks and opportunities into investment terms so 
professionals in their integration of sustainability data and 
that investors can understand their exposure to climate-
analytics into their daily workflows. 
related risks and opportunities and take action in their 
portfolios. Aladdin Climate offers investors measures of 
both the physical and transition risks of climate change with 
climate-adjusted security and portfolio risk metrics. As a 
demonstration of innovative work in building Aladdin 
Climate, in 2021, BlackRock earned a Best Buy Side Tech 
Award.24
Physical riskanalytics quantify the impacts associated with 
extreme weather events and longer-term changes in the 
climate on investments. Through the data and quantitative 
analytics BlackRock acquired in September 2021 from 
Rhodium Group,25BlackRock has access to granular 
physical risk data –like temperature change and rising sea 
levels -at a hyper-localized level, as well as economic 
impact –for example, related to changes in energy and 
labor costs. Aladdin Climate is able to connect these climate 
hazards and their associated economic impact to the risk 
profile of a security.
BlackRock 2021 TCFD Report 22
Risks, opportunities & 
scenario analysis
BlackRock recognizes the importance of effective institutional investors and wealth management 
identification, monitoring, and management of climate- intermediaries. Revenue fortheseservices may bebased 
related risks and opportunities across its global business. on several criteria including value of positions, number of 
Before discussing the climate-relatedrisks and  users,or accomplishment ofspecificdeliverables.
opportunities that BlackRock has identified,it is importantto 
Although BlackRock’s global offices could be impacted by 
revisit BlackRock’s business model forcontext. BlackRock’s 
adverse physical climate events, the direct financial impact 
exposure to climate-related risk is primarily indirect, with 
to BlackRock is limited, as BlackRock leases most of its 
such risk primarily having the potential to affect future 
facilities and sites are evaluated for physical risks during 
revenues and expenses, as opposed to assets and liabilities. 
the selection process. Further, BlackRock maintains 
This is because the assets that BlackRock manages belong  insurance, which helps to mitigate the potential financial 
to BlackRock’s clients, not BlackRock. BlackRock typically impact of physical climate risks. Additionally, BlackRock 
earns investmentmanagement feesasapercentage of  maintains business continuity plans to facilitate the 
AUM.BlackRock also earnsperformance fees on certain  continuity of business in the event of a business disruption, 
portfolios relative to an agreed-upon benchmarkor return which can include disruptions related to physical climate 
hurdle. Forsome products, BlackRock also may earn risks. Further discussion of business continuity 
securities lendingrevenue.  management is included on page 33.
In addition, BlackRock offers its proprietary Aladdin Exhibits S.6a and S.6b provide an overview of climate-
investment system as well as risk management, related risks and opportunities that BlackRock has 
outsourcing, advisory, and other technology services, to identified.
Exhibit S.6a: Summary of Key Climate-Related Opportunities
Primary 
Anticipated 
Opportunity Description
Financial 
Impact*
BlackRock’s $434 billion dedicated sustainable investment platform is well-positioned to meet 
Products& increased demand as more clients focus on the impact of climate change on their portfolios. 
Services BlackRock’s iShares® Sustainable ETF range is one of the largest in theindustry, both in terms  Increased 
Investment of AUM and the numberof investment options provided to investors. BlackRock manages oneof  revenues
Solutions the largest renewable power infrastructure investment platforms in the world and is one of the 
largest investors ingreenbondsonbehalfof clients.
There is increasing demand from Aladdin clients to understand their exposure to climate-related 
risks in their portfolios. Building on BlackRock’s strength in risk management through the 
Products&
Services Aladdin®platform, BlackRock launched Aladdin Climate to address this need. Aladdin Climate  Increased 
translates climate risks and opportunities into investment terms so that investors can  revenues
Aladdin understand their exposure to the financial risks associated with climate change and take action 
in their portfolios.
Resource In its operations, BlackRock’s sustainability strategy seeks to decouple company growth from 
Efficiency its impact on the environment, while increasing the efficiency and resiliency of its operations.  Reduced 
Finding innovative ways to run its operations with renewable energy, lower emissions, and  Expenses
Operations reduce waste, among other efforts, reduces BlackRock’s environmental impact.
* There is no guarantee that the primary anticipated financial impact referenced above will be achieved.
BlackRock 2021 TCFD Report 23
Exhibit S.6b: Summary of Climate-related Risks* 
Primary 
Anticipated 
Risk Description
Financial 
Impact
Climate-related risks could impact the value of BlackRock’s AUM and reduce investment 
management revenue. BlackRock may be unable to develop new products and services and the 
development of new products and services may expose BlackRock to reputational harm, additional 
Reduced 
Market costs, or operational risk. Unsuccessful efforts to develop products to suit clients’ climate-related 
Revenues
needs could expose BlackRock to additional costs and/or cause revenue and earnings to decline. 
Changes in client preferences and/or changes to regulation to which its clients are subject could 
reduce demand for certain investment products offered by BlackRock.
Stakeholder concern and/or associated activism related to the impact of BlackRock’s client 
portfolio holdings on the climate as well as BlackRock’s stated views on climate-related matters  Reduced 
Reputation
could create reputational risk, reduce client and employee loyalty, or lead to shareholder  revenues
divestment.1
New environmental and sustainability-related disclosure requirements, or regulations or taxes that 
apply to BlackRock’s investment products or other aspects of BlackRock’s operations could increase  Increased 
compliance costs or make BlackRock’s products less desirable to clients. New laws or regulations  expenses or 
Regulatory
could restrict or discourage the use of BlackRock’s investment products and/or services by clients  reduced 
due to authorities’ views on BlackRock’s actions related to climate-and other sustainability-related  revenues
matters.
BlackRock’s global offices could be impacted by adverse climate events; however, the direct financial 
impact is limited, as BlackRock leases most of its facilities2 and sites are evaluated for physical risks 
during the selection process. Further, BlackRock maintains insurance, which helps to mitigate the  Increased 
Physical
potential financial impact of physical climate risks. Additionally, BlackRock maintains business  expenses
continuity plans to facilitate the continuity of business in the event of a business disruption, which 
can include disruptions related to physical climate risks.
* The inclusion of climate-related risks in Exhibit S.6b should not be construed as a characterization regarding materiality or financial impact of these risks. For a discussion of risks that
BlackRock has determined could be financially material, please see Item 1A. Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as our subsequent Form 10-Q filings.
Climate Scenario Analysis
The TCFD recommends that companies “consider how  BlackRock conducted its first climate-related scenario 
climate-related risks and opportunities may evolve and  analysis in 2020, which was published in BlackRock’s 2020 
their potential business implications under different  TCFD Report. In 2021, BlackRock sought to build on this 
conditions.”3Scenario analysis is a technique used to  foundational work by integrating Aladdin Climate4
inform assessments of the resilience of an organization’s  analytics, as well as incorporating physical risk scenarios 
business or strategy to disruptions and/or the  and additional transition risk scenarios into its analysis.
organization’s ability to adapt to changes or uncertainties 
The analysis combined quantitative analytics from Aladdin 
that might affect its performance. In the case of climate 
Climate with qualitative assumptions about potential client 
change, scenario analysis allows an organization to develop 
reactions to each scenario to derive conclusions about
insight into how the physical and transition risks and 
potential impacts to BlackRock’s business. Below is a 
opportunities arising from climate change might impact its 
description of the process through which BlackRock 
business over time. While climate scenario analysis is not 
developed its 2021 climate scenario analysis.
meant to predict the future, BlackRock believes it is a 
helpful tool to hone its understanding of climate-related 
Analysis Overview
risks and opportunities. Climate scenarios allow 
organizations to explore possible outcomes, the  BlackRock’s 2021 enterprise-level climate scenario analysis 
assumptions they depend upon, and the possible courses  entailed the key steps outlined in Exhibit S.7.
of action the organization can take to address climate-
related risks and opportunities that may arise.
BlackRock 2021 TCFD Report 24
Exhibit S.7: Steps of BlackRock’s Enterprise-level Climate Scenario Analysis
Risk identification
Identified key climate-related risks to BlackRock
Scenario Selection
Selected two climate transition scenarios and two physical climate scenarios
to represent a range of potential future outcomes
Scenario Implementation
• Identified required data inputs and analytical specifications
• Utilized Aladdin Climate to assess asset-level climate-related impacts through climate-
adjusted security and portfolio risk metrics
• Conducted internal workshops to discuss the implications of the scenarios for 
BlackRock’s business and developed assumptions around client behavior and product 
flows not included in pre-specified scenarios
• Updated analytical specifications based on internal workshops to produce final output
Risk Identification As mentioned previously, climate scenario analysis is 
not meant to predict the future, but rather to guide 
BlackRock evaluated climate-related risks relevant to 
companies’ understanding of how these risks might 
BlackRock’s business referencing guidance provided by the 
affect their businesses over time. All the aforementioned 
TCFD. Four key climate-related risks were identified, as 
facets of climate-related market risk could be influenced 
shown in Exhibit S.6b. Importantly, as discussed on pages 
by both transition and physical climate risks to markets.
23-24, BlackRock’s exposure to climate-related risk is 
primarily indirect, affecting potential future revenue and 
Scenario Selection
expenses, rather than the assets and liabilities on 
BlackRock’s balance sheet. As such, BlackRock’s enterprise- For the 2021 climate scenario analysis, BlackRock 
level climate scenario analysis focused on assessing  sought to include a range of physical and transition risk 
climate-related impacts to the valuation of AUM and the  scenarios in its analysis. Exhibit S.8 provides an 
associated management fees generated by that AUM. The  overview of the selected scenarios.
analysis also sought to evaluate potential client reactions to 
Transition Risk. Climate-related transition risks arise 
the different scenarios. 
from exposure to the transition to a lower-carbon 
As highlighted in Exhibit S.6b, market-related climate risk is  economy through policy, legal, technology, and market 
one of the key risks to which BlackRock’s future profitability  changes. Depending on the nature, speed, and focus of 
may be exposed. More specifically, fluctuations in asset  these changes, the global climate transition will create 
values due to climate-related risks could lead to a reduction  meaningful shifts within sectors and across the entire 
in BlackRock’s investment management revenues as a  economy.
result of: (i) a decline in the value of AUM; (ii) the withdrawal 
Transition risk scenarios assess different forward-
of funds from BlackRock’s products; or (iii) the rebalancing 
looking economic, policy, and technology pathways, 
or reallocating of assets into different BlackRock products. 
resulting in projected values for energy supply and 
As such, the primary focus of BlackRock’s climate scenario 
demand, GHG emissions, and energy prices and costs. 
analysis was on the potential impact that physical and 
Each scenario takes a different shape depending on 
transition risks may have on the firm’s revenue under 
assumptions made on the pace of technology adoption 
different climate scenarios. Key drivers of outcomes under 
and when climate policy changes are made. 
the various scenarios were expected client investment flows 
into and out of BlackRock investment products as well as  A key unknown within the context of the global climate 
expected capital market returns under each scenario.  transition is the degree of orderliness and the timing 
under which the transition will unfold. As such, 
BlackRock sought to understand the potential 
implications of a disorderly and delayed unfolding of the
BlackRock 2021 TCFD Report 25
transition relative to a more gradual and coordinated  Scenario Implementation
outcome. To represent this distinction, BlackRock selected 
For each scenario, BlackRock developed analytical 
two climate transition scenarios developed by the Network 
specifications to consider the potential impact to 
for Greening the Financial System (“NGFS”): (1) Orderly –
BlackRock’s AUM and profit margin. As BlackRock derives 
Net Zero 2050; and (2) Disorderly –Delayed Transition. 
These transition pathways use three detailed integrated  revenues from management fees earned on AUM, key 
assessment models (“IAMs”)5 given the range of climate  elements of the specification included: 
sensitivities. BlackRock elected to utilize the NGFS 
• BlackRock’s AUM broken down by asset class and 
scenarios for transition risk given the increasing adoption 
investment style;
by global regulators and the granularity of data provided 
across a range of plausible scenarios. • Management fees, establishing the management fee 
level for each analyzed asset class, investment style, and 
Physical Risk. Physical risks of climate change arise from 
sector-level exposure;
the direct impacts of a changing climate in the short-and 
long-term. Such risks can include the risks of extreme  • Aladdin Climate analytics to assess asset-level climate-
weather events and rising global temperatures impacting  related impacts to BlackRock’s AUM through climate-
operations, leading to impairment of infrastructure and  adjusted security and portfolio risk metrics;
facilities, as well as disrupting supply chains.6With respect 
• Market return assumptions based on BlackRock 
to physical climate risk, uncertainty surrounds the degree 
Investment Institute Capital Market Assumptions; and
of warming that may occur and the associated implications 
for the planet’s climate over the long term. As such,  • Assumptions around client behavior in response to the 
respective scenario derived from internal workshops with 
BlackRock sought to review physical risk scenarios with a 
various subject-matter experts across the firm
range of temperature outcomes. Two scenarios developed 
by the Integrated Assessment Modeling Consortium 
A key advancement to BlackRock’s 2021 enterprise-level 
(“IAMC”)7 and used in the Intergovernmental Panel on 
climate scenario analysis was the use of Aladdin Climate to 
Climate Change (“IPCC”)’s Fifth Assessment Report were 
assess asset-level climate-related impacts. As such, 
selected for the analysis: (1) RCP 4.5 –some climate action; 
following is a discussion of the Aladdin Climate analytics 
and (2) RCP 8.5 –no climate action. RCP 4.5 represents an 
that were utilized for this analysis.Exhibit S.9 provides an 
intermediate scenario in which emissions peak around 
overview of Aladdin Climate’s approach to quantifying 
2040 then decline, and global mean surface temperature 
transition and physical climate risks.
change likely exceeds 2.4°C. RCP 8.5 represents a very high 
emissions pathway where global emissions continue to 
grow through the rest of the century and is considered a 
worst-case scenario for the physical effects of climate 
change.8
Exhibit S.8: New Climate Scenarios in 2021 Analysis
Disorderly –Delayed  RCP 4.5 –Some  RCP 8.5 –No Climate 
Orderly –Net Zero 2050
Transition Climate Action Action
Description Stringent climate policies  Climate policies are  Emissions peak around  Global emissions grow 
and innovation, reaching  delayed, which forces a very  2040 then decline through the rest of the 
global net zero CO aggressive policy response  century
2
emissions around 2050 starting in 2030
Expected  2.4°C ** 4.3°C 
1.5°C 1.8°C
Temperature Rise * (1.7°C to 3.2°C) (3.2°C to 5.4°C)
Transition or
Transition Transition Physical Physical
Physical
Source NGFS NGFS IPCC IPCC
* * Expected temperature rise by 2081-2100 relative to 1850-1900. Numbers in parenthesis correspond to the likely range
** The physical risk models in Aladdin Climate were developed utilizing the Fifth Assessment Report of the IPCC 
Sources: IPCC, 2014: Climate Change 2014. Chapter 2. Available at: https://www.ipcc.ch/report/ar5/syr/ Network for the Greening of Financial Services (“NGFS”). “NGFS Scenarios 
Portal”. Available at: https://www.ngfs.net/ngfs-scenarios-portal/explore/. 
BlackRock 2021 TCFD Report 26
Exhibit S.9: Aladdin Climate Approach to Modelling Climate Risk
01 02 03 04
Select a Climate  Assess the sector  Map to Company  Translate into 
Scenario & Economic  & Asset  Financial Terms
Assess expected risks  Impact Information Translate into financial 
under forward-looking  risks and temperature 
Convert climate  Map sector impacts and 
climate scenarios metrics at security and 
projections into forecasts  geolocations to individual 
portfolio level
of sector & economic  companies and assets
impact
Source: BlackRock, October 2021. Notes: Produced using BlackRock’s Aladdin Climate approach for modeling climate risk for individual securities and portfolios.
Conclusions
The results of the analysis indicate that, despite a lack of  The Orderly –Net Zero 2050 scenario is most likely to affect 
direct exposure to climate-related risks, BlackRock’s AUM  BlackRock in the short-to medium- term, as decisive policy 
and associated revenues and profit margin could be  actions will need to be effectuated in the very near-term to 
affected by different climate scenarios. Every scenario  remain on this trajectory. The Disorderly –Delayed 
reviewed highlighted plausible challenges that BlackRock  Transition scenario could also affect BlackRock with a key 
and its clients may face over time. The wide range of  challenge presented through the need to adapt to a 
scenarios also reflect the range of potential outcomes with  potentially uncoordinated or disjointed regulatory 
respect to climate change and the vast amount of  environment across jurisdictions. Under this scenario, 
uncertainty with which businesses, like BlackRock’s, need  BlackRock would need to be mindful that disparate 
to contend.  regulations across jurisdictions could affect client demand 
for different products in different jurisdictions. 
While these challenges are profound on many levels, the 
range of possibilities in our view suggests that BlackRock’s  We believe that both physical risk scenarios would create 
diversified platform and commitment to providing choice to  significant risks for BlackRock over the long-term. The 
its clients creates flexibility in its business model that is  magnitude of the physical effects may not only reduce 
likely to support the firm’s resilience as it adapts to the  asset values and therefore BlackRock’s AUM and revenue, 
impacts of both physical and transition climate risks.  but it could also potentially reduce capital markets 
investment by BlackRock’s clients who would likely need to 
Over the long-term, we would expect both transition 
divert their capital to address losses to physical property 
scenarios to lead to better outcomes for BlackRock and its 
and other challenges created by very significant negative 
clients, than either physical risk scenario, where global 
physical climate outcomes.
warming is not limited to well below 2 degrees Celsius. This 
is because in our analysis, we assume that if a significant 
low carbon transition occurs, this will reduce the potential 
magnitude of physical climate risks over the long-term. 
This in turn is beneficial to economic growth and stability. 
However, in the short-and medium-term, the transition 
scenarios create risks that must be managed including 
through continued efforts to adapt BlackRock’s business to 
account for the global transition to a low carbon economy.
BlackRock 2021 TCFD Report 27
Limitations Further, assumptions about client responses to each 
scenario are a significant driver of outcomes in this 
Scenario analysis is a dynamic exercise and iterative 
process that is meant to help envision potential future  analysis but are also inherently difficult to predict with 
outcomes, rather than predict the future. This climate  any certainty. The assumptions regarding client 
scenario analysis exercise provided a structured way to  responses to the scenarios were developed based on the 
qualitative judgement of subject-matter experts across 
evaluate climate-related risks and opportunities –both in a 
the firm. As such, there is no guarantee that clients will 
quantitative and qualitative manner, and it opened a wider 
respond in the manner assumed. This introduces 
discussion as to how physical and transition risks could 
inherent uncertainty into the results established by the 
affect BlackRock’s business. As with any scenario analysis, 
analysis. 
there are limiting factors worth highlighting. 
As such, we reiterate that this discussion is intended to 
First, predicting climate change and quantifying its impacts 
highlight the tools and analytical specifications 
on the economy is inherently complex –in how the impacts 
BlackRock established to refine its understanding of 
of climate change will impact asset values, how companies 
potential climate-related risks and opportunities; it is 
will react to regulatory and market pressures, as well as how 
not meant to predict the future. 
BlackRock’s clients will react and adapt to these impacts.
BlackRock 2021 TCFD Report 28
Operations
In its operations, BlackRock pursues a sustainability  Exhibit S.10: Revenue and Headcount Growth 
strategy that seeks to decouple company growth from the  vs. Greenhouse Gas Emissions
firm’s impact on the environment, while increasing the 
efficiency and resiliency of BlackRock’s operations. Finding  bn)
$ 18  35,000
innovative ways to power BlackRock’s business with clean  (
e  M
energy, lower the firm’s emissions, and reduce waste, among  u e
n t
oBptrlhiamecrka Rreioflyfco kfr’otssc ,eu rnsevediduro conenms r Beendlatucackl iRnsoguc sektm’asii nseasnbivoiilnriotsyn.  msInter 2ant0tea2gl0 yi, m isp act.  nds), Reve 16  30,000 ric Tons of
BlackRock reached carbon neutrality in its operations.1 usa 14  CO
BlackRock reached this milestone by employing energy  ho 2e
eefiflrefmicc ticreioncuictlyyd   sgntoroaattl ,oe2tgahineesdrw,  caisocemh iepelevimninsigna atiittnseg  1t h0for0or% uthg rohes ntehe eewm apbiuslrseci honasse t hoef   dcount (t 12  25,000  (tCO2e)
a
carbon credits.  e
H 10  20,000
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Progress to Date  Revenue ($bn)  
 Headcount (thousands)
Exhibit S.10 shows the relationship between BlackRock’s   Scope 1 & 2 Emissions Location-Based (tCO2e)
revenue, headcount, and Scope 1 and 2 (location-based) 
Source: BlackRock as of December 31, 2020.
emissions as an illustration of BlackRock’s progress towards 
decoupling its emissions from its growth.
BlackRock is committed to achieving its science-aligned 
As of year-end 2020, BlackRock had reduced Scope 1 and 2  emissions reduction targets and strives to operate as 
(location-based) emissions by 32%3from a 2014 baseline  efficiently as possible and by leveraging less carbon 
despite a 47% increase in headcount and a 37% increase in  intensive energies, such as renewable electricity and 
square footage over the same period. By achieving our  sustainable aviation fuel (“SAF”). Below is a discussion of 
100% renewable electricity goal, BlackRock has also  some of the larger sources of emissions from BlackRock’s 
reduced Scope 2 (market-based) emissions related to  operations and the efforts BlackRock is undertaking to 
electricity to zero. Several Scope 3 categories declined  reduce those emissions.
significantly in 2020, most notably, business travel. 
However, the steepness of these declines is primarily 
Business Travel
attributable to changes to our operating model arising from 
the COVID-19 pandemic.  When the world is not experiencing a global pandemic, 
business travel by employees is a significant source of 
Evolving to Science-Aligned  emissions within BlackRock’s operations. BlackRock 
recognizes the environmental impact of travel, but also 
Emissions Reduction Targets
believes that its culture and connections with clients and 
Building on the progress made in reducing our emissions to  other stakeholders can be enhanced by the personal 
date, BlackRock has established new science-aligned  connections that come from face-to-face meetings. At the 
emissions reduction targets using a 2019 baseline, as  same time, the pandemic has taught employees that many 
shown below: meetings can happen effectively in a virtual environment. As 
BlackRock has invested in these virtual capabilities, which 
• 67% reduction of Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 2030
were central to its resilience during the pandemic,4 
• 40% reduction in Scope 3 business travel emissions by  BlackRock encourages use of audio-visual capabilities to 
2030 reduce travel. In addition, BlackRock is working to 
incorporate SAF, the leading decarbonization technology in 
• Have suppliers representing 67% of our emissions 
aviation, into its emissions reduction strategy to both help 
(estimated based on spend) set science-aligned targets 
scale SAF’s adoption more broadly and to reduce its own 
by 2025
GHG emissions.
BlackRock 2021 TCFD Report 29
Electricity Carbon Credits
Since BlackRock began tracking electricity use in 2014, the  As part of BlackRock’s efforts to mitigate its environmental 
square footage of its operations has expanded by 37% and  impact while on the journey to net zero, BlackRock 
its headcount has increased by 47%, yet BlackRock’s  purchases carbon credits to compensate for the emissions 
electricity usage has not exceeded 2014 levels in either  from its operations that cannot currently be eliminated. 
20195or 2020.  This is a near-term mitigation strategy until BlackRock can 
further eliminate emissions or there is a more permanent 
BlackRock accomplished this through the consolidation of 
nature-based or engineered technology solution. While 
its data centers, retrofitting for LED lighting, redesigning its 
BlackRock does not rely on carbon credits to reach its 
office space use, and adjusting its heat, ventilation, and air 
emissions reduction targets, carbon credits are a key 
conditioning systems to correlate to occupancy more 
supplemental and transitional strategy. Exhibit S.11 
closely. BlackRock has also worked to make its data centers 
provides a description of the carbon credits projects 
among the most efficient in the industry by designing, 
BlackRock supported to compensate for its 2020 
building, and operating them to maximize efficient use of 
operational emissions.
energy, water, and materials.6 
To further enhance BlackRock’s carbon credits strategy, 
BlackRock has made it a priority to not only become more 
BlackRock joined the LEAF Coalition, a public-private 
energy efficient, but also to ensure that the energy we 
initiative designed to help reverse the trend of 
purchase comes from clean sources, wherever possible. 
deforestation, one of the leading contributors to climate 
BlackRock’s operations leverage renewable electricity, a 
change, and to accelerate climate action by providing 
zero-carbon energy, which reduces electricity-related 
results-based finance to countries committed to protecting 
emissions. In June 2020, BlackRock achieved its 100% 
their tropical forests and the billions of people depending 
renewable electricity goal to match the same amount of 
on them and to support sustainable development. Large-
renewable electricity as the electricity that BlackRock’s 
scale, jurisdictional tropical forest protection provides an 
global operations consume annually. This goal is achieved 
opportunity to slow and ultimately halt climate change. 
by contracting directly for renewable electricity, wherever 
BlackRock joins this initiative alongside the governments of 
possible (approximately 50%), and purchasing 
Norway, the United Kingdom, the United States, and a 
environmental attribute certificates (“EACs”)7when 
group of private sector participants, which helps to diversify 
BlackRock does not have operational control to procure its 
the initiative across sector and geography. 
own electricity or where renewable electricity is not 
available.
Exhibit S.11: Carbon Credits Projects for 2020 Offsets
Projects Description
• Located in Cambodia 
• A leader in safeguarding biodiversity and supporting the cultural diversity of the 
indigenous Bunong community, helping them to secure the first Indigenous Community 
Keo Seima, 
Land Title in Cambodia while also serving as the national REDD+8 model for Cambodia
Arbor Day Foundation
• Supports sustainable development by helping indigenous communities secure tenure; 
providing agriculture training; supporting alternative sustainable livelihoods, such as 
ecotourism; and supporting education
• BlackRock supported TIST projects in India, Kenya, and Uganda
• A combined reforestation and sustainable development program carried out by 
subsistence farmers with the goals of combatting poverty, deforestation, and climate 
change by improving their farms and planting trees
The International Small 
• Farmers utilize an innovative, community led approach to tree planting, developing tools 
Group and Tree 
to responsibly care for their local environment, local biodiversity, the global climate, and 
Planting (“TIST”) 
the well-being of their families and communities
Program
• Farmers plant trees on their land and retain ownership of the trees and their products, 
while receiving training from TIST and a share of the carbon revenues
• Carbon credit sales generate participant income and provide project funding to address 
agriculture, HIV/AIDS, and nutritional and fuel challenges
BlackRock 2021 TCFD Report 30
Green Team Network
The Green Team Network (“GTN”) is BlackRock’s community  Examples of GTN initiatives in 2020 and 2021 include:
of conservation-minded employees who steward  • The “Do One Thing” campaign focused on actions 
sustainability initiatives in our offices, homes, and 
employees can take to reduce their impact on the 
communities. GTN members are critical to bringing about a 
environment, including adjusting thermostat and water 
more sustainable culture at BlackRock. 48 BlackRock 
heater settings, unplugging unused electronics, getting 
offices host GTN chapters with participation from  educated on environmental issues, and reducing meat 
approximately 3,000 employees. GTN initiatives include 
consumption. 
efforts to reduce single-use plastic, reduce paper use and 
• GTN championed an educational campaign highlighting 
waste, plant trees, and support biodiversity in communities. 
ways employees can reduce their plastic use. 
GTN is also focused on educating employees about 
sustainability topics. • The “Net Zero Challenge” encouraged employees to 
measure their own emissions and commit to actions to 
reduce them. 
Social Impact
Social Impact is the firm’s charitable arm that seeks to  • Generation. In February 2021, the Foundation 
advance equitable and sustainable economies and  committed to support an equitable economic recovery 
communities. Through The BlackRock Foundation (the  from Covid-19 through a $13 million grant to Generation, 
“Foundation”), BlackRock funds and partners with  a nonprofit that supports jobseekers across fourteen 
organizations globally that help people, beyond the reach of  countries with the skills to access sustainable 
the firm’s core business, to build financial security and  employment. BlackRock is funding and partnering with 
participate in the transition to a low-carbon future. Distinct  Generation’s country operations in the US, UK, France, 
from the Foundation’s grantmaking portfolios, BlackRock  Italy, Spain, and India to help them scale their programs 
also runs employee engagement programs to equip  and place many more people into growth sectors that are 
employees with the tools and opportunities to be drivers of  compatible with a sustainable, low-carbon economy, 
local impact in their communities. Please see BlackRock's  including green jobs opportunities. These jobs, identified 
2020 Sustainability Disclosure for an overview of  by Generation, will help program graduates launch stable 
BlackRock’s Social Impact program.  careers and ultimately support their communities in the 
transition to a green net zero economy.
Below are examples of the Foundation’s climate-related 
philanthropic commitments and programs: • Echoing Green. BlackRock partners with social impact 
accelerator Echoing Green to create opportunities for 
• Breakthrough Energy Catalyst. In September 2021, the 
BlackRock employees to lend their skills and brainpower 
Foundation committed $100 million to Breakthrough 
to Echoing Green’s social entrepreneur fellows focused 
Energy Catalyst, a program within the larger Breakthrough 
on renewable energy access, sustainable agriculture, and 
Energy network founded by Bill Gates. Catalyst is a new 
other climate solutions. In 2021, BlackRock engaged in 
model for how businesses, governments, and private 
both long-term (7-week) and short-term (90-minute) 
philanthropy can help build the foundation of the net zero 
projects where employees are paired with a climate-
economy.9Catalyst identifies technologies at critical 
focused Echoing Green Fellow and work in teams to 
junctures where investments and blended financing can 
tackle a strategic challenge the organization is facing. 
reduce the “green premium” –the difference in cost 
Echoing Green has invested over $8.1 million in climate 
between a carbon emitting technology and its cleaner 
change solutions that reach more than 40 countries. 
alternative. Catalyst’s initial focus will be to help speed the 
Their Fellows have launched over 100 organizations that 
development and commercialization of four clean energy 
help global communities mitigate and adapt to climate 
technologies: direct air capture, green hydrogen, 
change.10
sustainable aviation fuel, and long-duration energy 
storage. BlackRock will also help Catalyst convene 
additional partners and provide its investment expertise as 
the program deploys its blended financing around the 
world.
BlackRock 2021 TCFD Report 31
Industry Engagement & 
Public Policy
BlackRock supports the creation of regulatory regimes that  trillion dollars in assets to help transform the global 
increase financial market transparency, protect investors,  financial system to accelerate and finance the investment in 
and facilitate responsible growth of capital markets, while  a net zero economy. BlackRock co-leads the GFANZ Sectoral 
preserving consumer choice and properly balancing  Pathways workstream with a network of UN and COP 
benefits versus implementation costs. BlackRock’s Global  advisers, expert climate NGOs, and firms across the GFANZ 
Public Policy Group (“GPPG”) coordinates and engages on  member base with the goal of helping to mobilize and 
important policy and regulatory dialogue. BlackRock’s  accelerate platforms being developed in hard-to-abate 
approach to public policy engagement, political activities,  sectors focusing on aviation, steel, and oil & gas. BlackRock 
and trade associations is described in BlackRock’s 2020  also joined NZAMI in 2021, which is an international group 
Sustainability Disclosure.  of asset managers committed to supporting investing 
aligned with net zero emissions by 2050 or sooner.
As it relates to climate and sustainability-related policy 
matters, BlackRock strives to engage constructively in the 
Public Policy
global dialogue through participation in collaborative 
industry initiatives as well as through engagement with 
BlackRock is a proponent of TCFD-aligned reporting, 
regulators around the world. 
supplemented by industry-specific metrics, in addition to 
supporting convergence of the private sector reporting 
Collaborative Initiatives
frameworks and standards to establish a globally consistent 
approach to climate and sustainability reporting more 
BlackRock and its employees participate in collaborative 
broadly under a common governance framework.
initiatives, examples of which are listed in Exhibit S.12, to 
share technical expertise and investment research  BlackRock advocates for consistent reporting standards for 
regarding climate-related risks and the transition to a net  corporate issuers on climate and other sustainability-
zero economy, as well as to support the development of  related disclosures. In 2021, BlackRock provided comments 
consistent industry standards and approaches to climate- in support of several policy efforts to encourage climate-
related disclosures and net zero portfolio alignment.  related reporting globally, including in comments 
submitted to the Hong Kong Securities and Futures 
In 2021, BlackRock joined GFANZ, an organization that 
Commission (“SFC”) and the US Securities and Exchange 
brings together over 450 financial firms across 45 
Commission (“SEC”).11
countries, collectively responsible for more than $130 
BlackRock has long supported international efforts toward a 
Exhibit S.12: Select Examples of Climate- single, globally consistent set of baseline sustainability 
reporting standards upon which different jurisdictions can 
Related Collaborative Initiatives
build.12Last year, BlackRock publicly stated its view that the 
optimal outcome and the one most likely to succeed is the 
• Climate Bonds Initiative
one proposed by the International Financial Reporting 
• Energy Transitions Commission
Standards (“IFRS”) Foundation13that would establish a 
• Glasgow Financial Alliance for Net Zero sustainability standards board working with the existing 
• Green Bond Principles initiatives and building upon their efforts. We were pleased 
that the IFRS Foundation announced in November 2021 the 
• Institutional Investors Group on Climate Change
formation of a new International Sustainability Standards 
• Net Zero Asset Managers Initiative
Board (“ISSB”) to develop a comprehensive global baseline 
• Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials of high-quality sustainability disclosure standards to meet 
• Portfolio Alignment Team investors’ needs.14BlackRock supports the formation of the 
• Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures ISSB and believes this will help drive progress toward the 
convergence needed to improve the quality of information 
• Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosures
available to investors and other stakeholders, while 
• Taskforce on Scaling Voluntary Carbon Markets
reducing the reporting burden on companies.
Note the above list is not exhaustive and is provided for informational purposes.
BlackRock 2021 TCFD Report 32
Risk Management
Disclose how the organization identifies, assesses, and manages 
climate-related risks. 
An integral part of BlackRock’s identity is the core belief that  with investment leadership to create ESG risk dashboards 
rigorous risk management is critical to the delivery of high- and standard reporting practices, leveraging the capabilities 
quality asset management services.  of the Aladdin platform. 
BlackRock employs a three-lines of defense approach to  The third line of defense, BlackRock’s Internal Audit 
managing risks in client portfolios. BlackRock’s investment  function, operates as an assurance function. The mandate 
teams and business management are the primary risk  of Internal Audit is to objectively assess the adequacy and 
owners, or first line of defense. Portfolio managers and  effectiveness of BlackRock’s internal control environment to 
research analysts are responsible for evaluating the material  improve risk management, control, and governance 
environmental (as well as social and governance) risks and  processes.
opportunities for an industry or company just as they 
consider other potential economic issues related to their  Business Continuity Risk 
investments. Examples of climate-related risks taken into 
Management
account include: risks from regulatory change or litigation 
and exposure to physical impacts such as flooding or other 
BlackRock is committed to providing high-quality, resilient 
extreme weather events or changes in temperature. In 
services to its clients. Significant resources and effort are 
addition, BlackRock has developed a framework to monitor 
dedicated to the Business Continuity Management (“BCM”) 
exposure to carbon intensive assets to support the  
and technology Disaster Recovery programs, which are 
understanding and management of potential climate-
designed to meet or exceed legal and regulatory obligations 
related risks.
in the locations in which BlackRock operates. 
BlackRock’s risk management function, RQA, serves as a key 
BlackRock maintains business continuity plans to facilitate 
part of the second line of defense in BlackRock’s risk 
the continuity of business in the event of a business 
management framework. RQA partners with portfolio teams 
disruption. BlackRock’s executive management provides 
and business management to help them understand, 
oversight and governance to the firm’s BCM program, 
monitor, manage, and report risks, including climate and 
supported by the BCM team, which manages the program.
other ESG-related risks. In addition to producing 
quantitative analysis to support BlackRock in managing its  BlackRock’s Enterprise Resilience Team conducts 
fiduciary and enterprise risks, RQA works with portfolio  assessments of physical locations to create individual site 
managers to help ensure that portfolio risks are consistent  risk models and plans for BlackRock offices and data 
across mandates, reflect current investment themes within  centers that are then incorporated into BlackRock’s risk 
particular strategies, and are consistent with clients’  management framework and reported on a monthly basis to 
reasonable expectations. RQA evaluates material ESG risks,  the firm’s risk management committees. These risk models 
including climate risk, during its regular reviews with  consider acute climate-related risks, including severe 
portfolio managers to provide oversight of portfolio  weather, wildfires, and flooding, as well as long-term risks 
managers’ consideration of these risks in their investment  such as climate change. 
processes. This helps to ensure that such risks are 
BlackRock uses predictive weather modeling to assess risks 
understood, deliberate, diversified, and scaled, and are 
from natural disasters across multiple phases, including site 
consistent with client objectives.
selection, facility design processes, and routine facility 
BSI partners with RQA to review and monitor ESG risk  management operations. Evaluation criteria include scale 
exposure at the investment group level, providing rigor and  and type of energy use, GHG emissions, local climate, facility 
consistency across our diverse investment platform. RQA,  type, location, occupancy status, and potential financial 
BSI and BlackRock Solutions Portfolio Analytics Group work  impact.
BlackRock 2021 TCFD Report 33
Metrics & Targets
Disclose the metrics and targets used to assess and manage 
relevant climate-related risks and opportunities where such 
information is material.
Getting to net zero starts with measuring where we are  • Firm-Level Climate Metrics for BlackRock’s AUM. This 
today. We expect this of the companies in which we invest  TCFD report marks the first time that BlackRock is 
on behalf of our clients, and we recognize the importance of  reporting preliminary estimates reflecting the absolute 
leading by example in our own disclosure. That is why a  emissions and the carbon footprint2 associated with 
critical component of BlackRock’s net zero commitment is  BlackRock’s AUM in corporate securities and real estate. 
focused on enhancing transparency at the fund and firm  Preliminary estimates of these metrics are provided in 
level.  Exhibit M.6.
BlackRock utilizes four main categories of climate-related  • Product-Level Sustainability Characteristics. 
metrics, as follows: BlackRock manages thousands of portfolios, each with 
their own investment strategy, guidelines, and 
• Business Indicators. Exhibit M.1 provides business 
constraints. As an asset manager, one of the most 
indicator metrics across sustainable investing, ESG 
important components of the transparency BlackRock 
integration, and investment stewardship.
provides is with respect to the Sustainability 
• Corporate GHG Emissions. BlackRock reports Scope 1,  Characteristics of investment products offered to clients. 
Scope 2, and relevant categories of Scope 3 emissions. 
Sustainability Characteristics provide investors with 
BlackRock obtains third-party verification for its Scopes 
specific non-traditional metrics. Alongside other metrics 
1 and 2 emissions, as well as for most Scope 3 
and information, these enable investors to evaluate funds 
categories.1Exhibit M.2 provides progress towards 
on certain ESG characteristics. Sustainability 
BlackRock’s 2014-2020 environmental sustainability 
Characteristics do not provide an indication of current or 
goals. Exhibit M.3 provides BlackRock’s corporate GHG 
future performance nor do they represent the potential 
emissions, in addition to select intensity and energy 
risk and reward profile of a fund. They are provided for 
metrics. As discussed below, BlackRock believes that 
transparency and for information purposes only. 
Scope 3 (Investments) should refer to emissions from 
Sustainability Characteristics should not be considered 
investments made with assets that are owned by the 
solely or in isolation, but instead are one type of 
company, rather than those managed by an asset 
information that investors may wish to consider when 
manager on behalf of external asset owners. As such, the 
assessing a fund. 
Scope 3 (Investments) figure reported in Exhibit M.3 
represents emissions from BlackRock’s seed and co- BlackRock makes Sustainability Characteristics publicly 
investment portfolios (where data is available), which  available for publicly-offered funds that it manages, 
reflect investment of BlackRock’s own capital. Emissions  including ETFs and mutual funds (where reliable data is 
associated with BlackRock’s AUM in corporate and real  available). As of December 2021, one or more climate-
estate securities are reported separately as described in  related metrics are publicly available for funds totaling 
the following bullet. approximately $2.8 trillion in AUM(note holdings value 
as of September 30, 2021).
BlackRock 2021 TCFD Report 34
Business Indicators
Exhibit M.1: Business Indicators
Business Indicators 2018 2019 2020  Q3 2021
Sustainable Investing AUM ($ billions) a $52 b $107 b $199 $434
Flows into Sustainable Products ($ billions) - $34 $68 $64
Investment Stewardship Team Size 36 45 50 67
Total Investment Stewardship Engagements c d 2,049 2,050 3,501 2,689
Total Investment Stewardship Engagements on 
301 316 1,939  1,645
Environment-Related Issues (# of engagements) c d
a. The dedicated sustainable investment platform includes: 1) strategies with an explicit ESG objective which may include a targeted quantifiable ESG outcome (“Broad ESG”); 2) 
strategies that capitalize on long-term transformative industry or societal trends through pursuit of specific E, S, or G themes(“Thematic”); 3) strategies where investments are made 
with the intention to generate positive measurable social and environmental impact alongside financial return (“Impact”) and;4)screened strategies that incorporate BlackRock’s 
baseline screens (“Dedicated Screened”). BlackRock’s definition of impact investments is in line with the International Finance Corporation’s Operating Principles for Impact 
Management.
b. 2018 and 2019 figures do not include Dedicated Screened strategies.
c. BlackRock counts only direct interaction as an engagement. BIS also write letters to raise companies’ awareness of thematic issues on which BIS are focused or changes in policy, but 
this outreach is considered distinct from engagement as it is difficult to monitor the effectiveness of letter writing without direct interaction and therefore not included in the figures 
shown in this row. See BIS’s 2020 Annual Calendar Year report. Available at: https://www.blackrock.com/corporate/literature/publication/blk-annual-stewardship-report-2020-
calendar-year.pdf
d. In 2020, BlackRock Investment Stewardship switched their reporting to calendar year reporting from proxy year reporting. Notethat the Investment Stewardship Engagement data 
for 2018 and 2019 is for the respective proxy year (July 1 2017 –June 30 2018, and July 1 2018 –June 30 2019). Investment Stewardship Engagement data for 2020 and 
2021 is for the respective calendar year (January 1 2020 –December 31 2020, and January 1 2021 –September 30 2021).
BlackRock 2021 TCFD Report 35
Corporate GHG 
Emissions & Targets
Exhibit M.2 provides BlackRock’s progress towards select environmental sustainability goals. Exhibit M.3 provides 
BlackRock’s corporate GHG emissions covering Scope 1, Scope 2, and relevant categories of Scope 3.  For a discussion of 
BlackRock’s strategy to achieve these goals, please see Operations on pages 29 and 30. Note that data provided in this 
section is for the year-ended 2020. 
Exhibit M.2: Progress on 2020 Environmental Targets for Corporate Operations
2019 2020 2020
Category Goals
Progress a Progress b Goal c
Reduce facility location-based GHG emissions 
Emissions (electricity, stationary combustion, and  44% 54% 45%
refrigerants) per full-time employee
Match same amount of renewable electricity (in 
Renewable Energy MWh) as the electricity that our global operations,  100% 100% 100%
including data centers consume annually
Electricity Reduce absolute global electricity consumption 1% 11%d 18%
Air Travel Emissions Reduce air travel emissions per employee 21% 88%e 20%
Paper Reduce global office paper consumption 44% 78%f 25%g
Waste Increase global waste diversion from landfill 48% 7%f 75%g
a. As of December 31, 2019 unless otherwise noted.
b. As of December 31, 2020 unless otherwise noted. Note that results in 2020 were affected by changes to BlackRock’s operating model as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.
c. 2020 goals use a 2014 baseline unless otherwise noted.
d. This goal was not achieved, in part, due to a significant increase in square footage from our initial baseline. It is worth noting that electricity use per square foot declined by 34% from 
2014 to 2020.
e. This figure is not representative of travel in a typical year, as results were largely due to the lack of employee travel duringthe COVID-19 pandemic.
f. Paper reduction and waste diversion metrics were significantly impacted by low occupancy of offices during the COVID-19 pandemicas employees primarily worked from home.
g. Uses a 2017 baseline 
Note on 2020 Data and COVID-19
Like most companies, the COVID-19 pandemic had a significant impact on BlackRock’s operating model in 2020, with the majority ofemployees working from home for three-
quarters of the year. Although BlackRock’s global offices remained fully open and operational throughout the pandemic, employee travel and other normal in-office activity levels were 
curtailed. As a result, 2020 data and emissions reductions are not necessarily representative of improvements in the management of our carbon footprint. 
BlackRock 2021 TCFD Report 36
Exhibit M.3: Corporate GHG Emissions
% 
(in metric tons of CO e 2014 2019 2020
2 change a
Scope 1 and 2 
Scope 1   5,756  5,589 3,278 (43%)
Scope 2 (Location-Based)b 27,409 23,126 c 19,363 (29%)
Scope 2 (Market-Based)dElectricity 27,409 0 0 (100%)
Scope 2 (Market-Based) Purchased Heat - 2,757 e 1,011 (63%) f
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 (Location-Based) 33,165 28,715 22,641 (32%)
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 (Market-Based) 33,165 8,346 c 4,289 (87%)
Scope 3
(in metric tons of CO e) 2017 2019 2020 % change g
2
1. Purchased Goods & Services h - 249,356 i 214,957 (14%) f
2. Capital Goods  - 8,015 i 2,337 (71%) f
3. Fuel-and Energy-Related Activities (Location-Based) j 5,809 7,865 6,825 17%
m 3. Fuel-and Energy-Related Activities (Market-Based)j 2,718 3,093 2,465 (9%)
a
re 4. Transportation & Distribution (“T&D”) k - 1,709 973 (43%) f
st
p
U 5. Waste Generated in Operations l 818 1,162 379 (54%)
6. Business Travel m 39,238 39,116 6,606 (83%)
7. Employee Commuting (employee shuttles in India) n 611 1,161 26 (96%)
8. Leased Assets (Location-Based) o 596 777 928 56%
8. Leased Assets (Market-Based) o - 0 0 -
9. Transportation & Distribution  Not Relevant
10. Processing of Sold Products Not Relevant
m
a 11. Use of Sold Products Not Relevant
e
r
st 12. End-of-Life Treatment of Sold Products Not Relevant
n
w
o 13. Leased Assets  Not Relevant
D
14. Franchises Not Relevant
15. Investments p
- - 121,372 -
(BlackRock balance sheet only –see Exhibit M.6 for AUM-related metrics)
Emissions Intensity Metrics
Carbon Intensity (Scope 1 & Scope 2 tCO2e / $1 million revenue) - 2.0 1.4 -
Facilities tCO e per Employee q - 1.8 1.3 -
2
Scope 3 Business Travel per Employee r 2.8 2.4 0.4 (86%)
Electricity
Total Electricity Consumed (MWh) 66,097 70,605 64,225 (3%)
Percent Renewable Electricity s 86% 100% 100% 16%
BlackRock 2021 TCFD Report 37
Footnotes to Exhibits M.3
a. Percentage change versus 2014 baseline unless otherwise specified. Calculations are using exact figures, so percentage changecalculations using rounded figures may 
not tie exactly.
b. As defined by the GHG Protocol: “A location-based method reflects the average emissions intensity of grids on which energy consumption occurs.” 
c. Scope 2 figures includes both electricity and purchased heat beginning in 2019. Please also note that the purchased heat component of emissions reported for 2019 was 
not subject to the LRQA limited assurance review. 
d. As defined by the GHG Protocol: “A market-based method reflects emissions from electricity that companies have purposefully chosen. It derives emission factors from 
contractual instruments, which include any type of contract between two parties for the sale and purchase of energy bundled withattributes about the energy generation, 
or for unbundled attribute claims.” 
e. Purchased heat emissions were not subject to LRQA’s limited assurance review in 2019.
f. Percent change versus 2019 baseline. Calculations are using exact figures, so percentage change calculations using the rounded figures above may not tie exactly.
g. Percentage change versus 2017 baseline unless otherwise specified. Calculations are using exact figures, so percentage changecalculations using the rounded figures 
above may not tie exactly.
h. Calculations are estimated based on spend for each supplier unless sufficient data is available.
i. Restated from 2020 TCFD due to the adoption of the Environmental Protection Agency’s (“EPA’s”) methodology. More information available at: 
https://www.epa.gov/ghgreporting. Figures were not subject to LRQA’s limited assurance review in 2019. 
j. Fuel and energy-related activities that are not included in Scope 1 & 2.
k. T&D figures are included in Fuel-and Energy-Related Activities (Location-Based) for 2017. T&D 2019 figure was not subject to LRQA’s limited assurance review in 2019. 
l. This figure is estimated. To calculate this figure, BlackRock collected waste data from representative sites. Total emissionsare then extrapolated based on the total 
headcount of the company.
m.Business travel includes air travel, car rentals, car service, and rail. Travel was significantly curtailed in 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
n. Employee commuting emissions are calculated from shuttles transporting employees from their home to work at our India offices. This is not a comprehensive measure of 
emissions from employee commuting in locations outside of India.
o. Upstream leased assets emissions are for unmanned data centers and serviced office suites. 
p. This is not a comprehensive measure of Scope 3, Category 15 (“S3C15”). Reported emissions for S3C15 is limited to corporate securities (listed equities, corporate bonds, 
and associated derivatives) in BlackRock’s seed portfolios and co-investments. Data coverage represents approximately 61% of BlackRock’s seed and co-investment 
portfolios. Excludes strategic investments, hedge investments, carried interest, and seed and co-investment portfolio investments in non-corporate fixed income, 
commodities, derivatives not linked to corporate issuers, and alternatives.  BlackRock will seek to incorporate additional assetclasses as data and methodologies become 
available. PCAF Data Quality Score is between 2 and 3. Methodology and Limitations are discussed on pages 42 -45.
q. Facilities tCO2e refers to Scope 1 and 2 Location-Based emissions. Denominator includes full time employees and contingent workers. Since setting the similar 2020 
target referenced (p age  36) which included only electricity, stationary combustion, and refrigerants in Facilities tCO2e, BlackRock has since expanded reporting this 
metric to include natural gas, diesel fuel, stationary combustion, refrigerants, location-based electricity and purchased heat in this progress metric.
r. Denominator includes full time employees and contingent workers.
s. Figures include BlackRock’s use of EACs. 
BlackRock 2021 TCFD Report 38
Scope 3 (Investments) BlackRock encourages the development of a level playing 
field for S3C15 reporting across financial institutions 
Category 15 of Scope 3, “Investments” (hereafter, “Scope 3  operating in the same lines of business, regardless of 
Investments” or “S3C15”), is an important category of  corporate structure, and by reflecting within that framework 
emissions that should be considered by financial  the unique nature of different types of financial activities.4
institutions. A key question that arises for asset managers,  In BlackRock’s view, S3C15 should be limited to on balance 
like BlackRock, is the treatment of investments that are  sheet loans and owned investments. GHG emissions 
managed on behalf of external clients, who are the asset  associated with asset management on behalf of external 
owners. The Corporate GHG Protocol (“GHGP”)  clients should be reported separately. 
distinguishes asset owners from asset managers under 
This view has been reflected within the reporting provided 
S3C15 in that it requires asset owners to report emissions 
in this document. As such, S3C15 in Exhibit M.3, which 
associated with their investments, whereas asset managers 
covers BlackRock’s corporate GHG emissions, reflects 
are not required to report emissions associated with the 
emissions associated with BlackRock’s seed investments
assets they manage for external clients under S3C15 
and co-investments portfolios,5 which are made with 
(though they may optionally do so).3
BlackRock’s own capital. Note that the emissions reported 
While the GHGP draws this distinction between asset  reflect emissions only for a subset of BlackRock’s seed and 
owners and asset managers, it does not fully address  co-investments portfolios that are invested in listed equity, 
reporting under S3C15 by asset managers. Moreover, were  corporate fixed income, and associated derivatives.6
asset managers to optionally report emissions associated  Reported S3C15 excludes emissions from strategic 
with investments managed on behalf of their external  investments, hedge investments, carried interest, and seed 
clients under S3C15, there would be 100% double  and co-investment portfolio investments in non-corporate 
counting with their clients’ (the asset owners’) S3C15.  securities, commodities, derivatives not linked to corporate 
BlackRock believes this is a problematic outcome that  issuers, and alternatives. These assets have been excluded 
would lead to confusion and reduce the comparability and  from this year’s reporting due to insufficient data and 
usability of S3C15 data across financial institutions.  methodologies available to report this information. 
BlackRock intends to incorporate additional asset classes 
The lack of clarity in the existing GHGP guidance is also 
as data and methodologies become available over time.
likely to lead to underreporting of emissions associated 
with asset management, particularly in instances where  As discussed in the following section, preliminary estimates 
financial institutions manage investments of their own  of emissions associated with BlackRock AUM in corporate 
capital in addition to investments on behalf of other asset  securities and real estate are provided in Exhibit M.6. The 
owners. following section provides a detailed description of the 
analysis performed to develop preliminary estimates of 
emissions associated with BlackRock’s AUM (where 
sufficient data and methodologies were available). The 
same methodologies were applied to calculate S3C15 for 
BlackRock’s seed and co-investment portfolios.
BlackRock 2021 TCFD Report 39
Firm-Level Climate Metrics for 
BlackRock’s AUM
BlackRock is an asset manager. Asset managers act as  Metrics Selection
agents investing assets that belong to their clients on their 
clients’ behalf. This TCFD report marks the first time that  There is currently little consensus on how to measure 
BlackRock is reporting preliminary estimates reflecting the  portfolio alignment to net zero and/or exposure to the 
absolute emissions and the carbon footprint7 associated  climate transition.9BlackRock undertook an exercise in 
with the investments BlackRock makes on behalf of its  2021 to evaluate existing climate-related and portfolio 
clients in corporate securities and real estate (where data is  alignment metrics and methodologies, with the goal of 
available). Several advancements have enabled BlackRock’s  reporting aggregate statistics (where sufficient data and 
ability to produce these estimates, namely:  methodologies exist) for BlackRock’s AUM. The objective 
was not only to provide information to stakeholders, but 
(i) Corporate issuers are increasingly reporting their GHG 
also to advance the dialogue within the asset management 
emissions through voluntary and regulatory initiatives; 
industry regarding the uses and limitations of existing 
(ii) BlackRock’s commitment to put sustainability at the  approaches. One conclusion from the exercise was that 
center of the Aladdin platform has resulted in the  there is no single metric that provides full insight into a 
incorporation of a breadth of climate-related metrics  portfolio’s trajectory or exposure as it relates to the global 
and data into BlackRock’s analytical systems; and transition to net zero. Moreover, some metrics are more 
appropriate for disclosure at the portfolio or fund level, and 
(iii) Industry efforts have formed to facilitate the 
others are more appropriately reported at a firm or 
development of methodologies for calculating climate-
institution level. Exhibit M.4 shows a summary of key 
related and portfolio alignment metrics and setting net 
climate-related and portfolio alignment metrics. Each of 
zero-aligned targets.
these metrics comes with its own uses and limitations, as 
Following is a discussion of the methodology, results, and  shown in Exhibit M.4. 
limitations of an analysis performed in 2021 to compute 
For BlackRock’s TCFD firm-level reporting, absolute 
preliminary estimates of the absolute emissions and carbon 
emissions and carbon footprint were selected. Absolute 
footprint associated with BlackRock’s AUM in corporate 
emissions in this context refers to proportionate exposure to 
securities (listed equities, corporate bonds, and associated 
an investee company’s or asset’s emissions (based on % 
derivatives),8and real estate. These asset classes were 
ownership). While the absolute emissions metric has the 
included in the analysis because there is consensus around 
benefit of intellectual consistency with other GHG 
the methodologies for attributing emissions to investors 
emissions metrics reported at the corporate level,10a 
and sufficient reported or estimated data were available. As 
drawback of absolute emissions is that it does not account 
of year-end 2020, collectively, investments in the assets 
for the size of the investor. In other words, absolute 
included in this analysis represent more than 65% of 
emissions are likely to grow if the portfolio or AUM grows 
BlackRock’s AUM. As consensus around methodologies  
and vice versa if the portfolio shrinks. To account for this 
and available data for additional asset classes builds, 
limitation, carbon footprint, which refers to absolute 
BlackRock will seek to incorporate those asset classes into 
emissions divided by AUM (rounded to the millions), was 
future TCFD reports.
also estimated. Carbon footprint normalizes emissions for 
the size of the portfolio. Global consistency in entity level 
reporting was also a factor in the selection of these metrics, 
as both absolute emissions and carbon footprint are 
metrics that will be required to be reported by asset 
management entities based in the European Union under 
the SFDR.11
Further discussion of metrics utilized for fund-level 
reporting is provided on page 46.
BlackRock 2021 TCFD Report 40
ExhibitM.4: Pros & Cons of Key Climate-Related and Portfolio Alignment Metrics & 
Incorporation into BlackRock Reporting
Backward-looking Exposure Forward-looking Metrics
Implied 
Portfolio 
Green Exposure Absolute Emissions Emissions Intensity Temperature 
Coverage
Rise
Unit $ or %  tCO2e tCO2e per unit  Degrees Celsius %
Proportionate  Proportionate  Emissions exposure  Temperature rise  Portion of AUM in 
exposure to  exposure to investee  per unit of output or  implied by  investees 
What it  “green” assets or  GHG emissions investment (i.e.,  holdings  meeting criteria, 
measures revenues revenue, AUM,  e.g. having 
MWh) science-based 
targets
• Captures  • Standard data  • Standard data  • Intuitive  • Clearly defined
importance of  inputs inputs connection to  • Simple to track / 
financing the  • Direct connection  • Normalizes for  net zero goals communicate
Pros
solutions that  to net zero goals size, allowing  • Industry 
support the  • Industry standard  comparability standard (SBTi)
transition
(PCAF)
• Lack of  • Doesn’t account  • Market  • Complex,  • Target data not 
consensus on  for size movements can  requires  yet 
definition of  • Market movement  create noise multiple  standardized
Cons “green” can create noise • Incomplete data /  assumptions  • No guarantee 
• Limited data  • Incomplete data /  asset class  • Methodologies  investees 
availability asset class  coverage vary achieve targets
coverage
Current  - Firm-level:Absolute  Firm-Level:Carbon  Fund-level:  -
BlackRock Use  Emissions of AUM  Footprint of AUM  Implied 
of Metrics (corporates, real  (tC02e / $ million  Temperature Rise 
estate) AUM) (“ITR”)*
Fund-level 
weighted average 
carbon intensity 
(“WACI”)*
*Note that WACI and ITR are not reported for all BlackRock funds. The metrics that are reported vary by asset class and strategyin addition to available data and methodologies. 
For examples of these disclosures on BlackRock index mutual funds and ETFs, please visit www.ishares.comand www.blackrock.com. 
BlackRock 2021 TCFD Report 41
Methodology Another consideration was the treatment of emissions 
associated with green bonds. Green bonds are bonds 
PCAF is a consortium of financial institutions working to  whose funding is provided exclusively to projects that are 
develop an open source GHG emissions accounting  aligned with the International Capital Markets Association 
standard to establish a harmonized approach to assessing  (“ICMA”) Green Bond Principles.14BlackRock believes that 
and reporting GHG emissions associated with lending and  investors should be incentivized to include green bond 
investment activities.12PCAF published the Global GHG  investment in their portfolios and, therefore, qualifying 
Accounting & Reporting Standard for the Financial Industry  green bonds should have the benefit of not carrying the 
(“PCAF Standard”), which BlackRock referenced as a  emissions of the issuer when calculating portfolio 
starting point for estimating absolute emissions associated  emissions. As such, green bond holdings were excluded 
with BlackRock’s AUM.13However, the PCAF Standard does  when calculating exposure to each issuer. However, all 
not address all asset classes and has a number of  other exposures to those issuers were included.15
methodological issues still to be explored. Further, the 
Another key challenge to estimating absolute emissions 
PCAF Standard was developed primarily for use by banks 
was obtaining emissions data that is contemporaneous 
and, therefore, has not yet fully addressed the asset 
with holdings data. This issue arises because companies 
management and portfolio context. As such, BlackRock 
typically report their emissions for a given year well after 
made several methodological decisions that are not 
year-end. In addition, there is typically a lag between the 
included in the PCAF Standard, which are discussed below. 
date when emissions data is reported and the date when 
Exhibit M.5 highlights key methodological choices. 
that data is incorporated into the MSCI dataset. As such, 
Corporates. For corporate securities (listed equity,  holdings values measured at year-end will not be 
corporate bonds, and associated derivatives), emissions  contemporaneous with emissions data that is available at 
were apportioned based on the proportion of the company’s  that time. To mitigate the impact of this timing mismatch to 
enterprise value including cash (“EVIC”) represented by  the extent possible, this analysis utilizes different dates for: 
BlackRock’s investments on behalf of its clients. Issuer- (i) the date at which exposure to each issuer is measured 
level Scope 1 and 2 emissions data were obtained from  (“holdings value analysis date”); and (ii) the date on which 
MSCI, as were issuer-level EVIC data. MSCI utilizes reported  the latest available emissions data is provisioned by a 
data from companies where emissions are disclosed. Where  third-party data provider (“emissions effective date”). 
companies do not disclose their emissions, MSCI applies   Whereas the holdings analysis date is December 31 of each 
proprietary methods to estimate emissions.  reporting year; the emissions effective date is September 
30 of the following year. As discussed in the limitations
Treatment of derivatives and short positions when 
calculating exposure to each issuer was an important 
Exhibit M.5: GHG Emissions from AUM & 
consideration for a subset of portfolios in the analysis. 
Neither derivatives nor short positions are addressed by the  Carbon Footprint -Methodological 
PCAF Standard. Further, there are different views within the  Highlights 
industry as to the application of short positions and 
derivatives in the emissions context. On the one hand, long  Emissions 
Scope 1 & 2
Included
exposures through physical securities are the most direct 
representation of engagement rights with companies. On 
Emissions 
the other hand, omitting derivatives and short positions  Excluded Scope 3*
could misrepresent the economic exposure of the portfolio 
to a given issuer. After reviewing the pros and cons of each  • Corporates (listed equities, corporate bonds, 
Asset Classes 
and associated derivatives)
approach, we concluded that metrics that best approximate  Included
• Physical real estate
economic exposure are most appropriate because they 
align more closely to how financial metrics are reported. As 
• Non-corporate fixed income
such, the preliminary estimates reported herein reflect net  Asset Classes  • Commodities
exposure to each corporate issuer including exposure  Excluded • Alternatives other than real estate
obtained through derivatives. These methodological  • Derivatives not linked to corporate issuers
choices had a minimal impact on absolute emissions and 
carbon footprint estimates for the firm given that the  Data Sources MSCI (corporates)
majority of BlackRock’s AUM is held in long-only index
portfolios where short positions and derivatives are not a  Standards  PCAF (with certain adjustments)
Referenced
significant component of the investment strategy. For 
individual portfolios with more significant use of derivatives  *PCAF calls for Scope 3 emissions of certain sectors to be reported beginning 
or short positions, it may be appropriate to report long and  in 2021. This analysis is for 2019 and 2020 data.  Further consideration 
short positions separately. must be given to double counting implications of including Scope 3 emissions.
BlackRock 2021 TCFD Report 42
section below, while this approach is unlikely to address all  securities and real estate (where data was available), 
instances of lagged emissions data, it increases the  representing approximately $5.7 trillion of BlackRock’s 
likelihood that emissions and holdings are measured as of  AUM (over 65% of BlackRock’s total AUM as of December 
the same or similar time periods. Additionally, this lag in the  31, 2020), which equates to just over 1% of global financial 
availability of emissions data is also the reason why the  assets.16The absolute emissions estimates shown in 
figures in Exhibit M.6 are reported as of year-end 2020 as  Exhibit M.6 that are associated with that AUM represent 
opposed to a more recent date. just under 1% of total annual global emissions.17
Real Estate. For directly invested, physical real estate,  These results comport with our intuition about our 
BlackRock has long-established data programs to collate,  business given that the majority of the investments 
measure, and report key sustainability metrics, including  BlackRock makes on behalf of its clients are held in index 
GHG emissions, at the individual property-level and  funds. Index funds provide numerous benefits to millions of 
aggregated portfolio-level. Operational Scope 1 and 2  people around the world by democratizing access to 
emissions for each property were apportioned to BlackRock  diversified and professionally managed portfolios. However, 
based on the proportionate investments in each property  index funds, by their very nature, are meant to reflect the 
represented by BlackRock’s clients’ assets.  underlying markets in which they invest, which would 
suggest that the magnitude of emissions from BlackRock’s 
Results & Discussion investments on behalf of clients would be consistent with 
global aggregate emissions across the markets in which 
Exhibit M.6 provides preliminary estimates of absolute 
BlackRock invests on behalf of clients. 
emissions and carbon footprint for BlackRock’s AUM in 
Another key finding from the analysis, which is shown in 
corporate securities and real estate (where data was 
Exhibit M.7, is that the companies identified in BIS’ Climate 
available). Estimated absolute emissions were 330.7 
Focus Universe comprised 86% of total absolute emissions 
million tons CO e in 2020, down from 344.3 million tons 
2
in 2020 and 90% in 2019, despite representing 
CO e in the prior year. The carbon footprint in 2020 was 58 
2
approximately 40% of the assets included in this emissions 
tons of CO e per million dollars of AUM, down from 73 tons 
2
analysis and only approximately 25% of BlackRock’s total 
per million dollars of AUM in 2019. The limitations of the 
AUM in both years. As previously discussed, BIS’ Climate 
estimates should be reviewed carefully (discussed in 
Focus Universe represents over 1,000 carbon-intensive 
following section). 
public companies with which BIS is focusing its 
The analysis indicates that the emissions associated with 
engagement and voting on climate-related issues. For 
the investments that BlackRock makes on behalf of its  companies in the Climate Focus Universe, BIS reviews their 
clients are generally aligned with the state of global  climate action plans and disclosures –voting against 
emissions. The scope of the analysis was corporate  management when BIS believes that accelerated progress 
towards climate risk mitigation is necessary to drive 
Exhibit M.6: GHG Emissions Associated with  sustainable, long-term financial returns for clients. 
BlackRock’s Assets Under Management a
Exhibit M.7: BlackRock 2021 Climate Focus 
2019b 2020c Universe Proportion of Absolute Emissions
Absolute Emissions
344.3 330.7
(million tCO2e)  344.3  330.7 
s
C(taCrOb2oen  /F $o omtipllrioinnt AUM) 73 58 missions CO2e)
En
Dfigatuar easb orevfel ercetp creosveenratgs eu nofa ouvdeirte 6d5, p%re olifm AiUnMar.y T ehsetirme aartee ss. eNvoetr aclo lmimpitraethioennssi ve – olute millio 90% 86%
alismsiotacitaiotneds  sweitchti othne psreo fviigduerde so.n P lpeaagsee  4re4v.i ew results in conjunction with the  Abs(in 
a) Includes corporate securities (listed equity, corporate bonds, associated derivatives,) and 
physical real estate (where data was available). Excludes all other AUM. 2019 2020
b)Holdings value analysis date is as of December 31, 2019. The emissions effective date, on  Other holdings 2021 Climate Focus Universe
which emissions and EVIC data is reported and provisioned by third party data providers is 
September 30, 2020. Data above represents unaudited, preliminary estimates. Not comprehensive –figures 
reflect coverage of over 65% of AUM. There are several limitations associated with 
c) Holdings value analysis date is as of December 31, 2020. The emissions effective date, 
these figures. Please review results in conjunction with the limitations section provided 
on which emissions and EVIC data is reported and provisioned by third party data 
on page 44.
providers is September 30, 2021
BlackRock 2021 TCFD Report 43
Limitations As discussed in the methodology section, BlackRock 
leveraged MSCI data for emissions and EVICfor the 
Given the emerging nature of methodologies and data used  corporate securities included in the analysis. In the case 
to estimate absolute emissions and carbon footprint, there  that companies in MSCI’s dataset have not reported their 
are significant limitations to consider as discussed below.   emissions, MSCI uses proprietary methods to estimate the 
company’s emissions. 
Data Quality
Accurate computation of climate-related metrics in  To derive a PCAFData Quality Score, PCAFrecommends 
investment portfolios requires high quality security-level  calculating an average of data scores for individual 
data including GHG emissions data for underlying investee  securities weighted by assets invested in each security. 
companies. Many companies are measuring and publicly  BlackRock sought to estimate a PCAFData Quality Score 
reporting their emissions, which facilitates the type of high- for this analysis by mapping fields provided by MSCI that 
quality data that investors need to effectively calculate  reflect the methodology used for producing emissions data 
climate-related portfolio metrics. However, many  as well as mapping our own data on physical real estate to 
companies have not yet begun their emissions reporting  the PCAFcategories. Based on this approach, the PCAF
journey. Recognizing that deferring measurement and  Data Quality Score is between 2 and 3. This means that a 
reporting until 100% reported data is available would  significant portion of the underlying data used in the 
impede the progress BlackRock could make in the near- analysis is reported, but a portion is estimated. Increasing 
term in providing transparency to stakeholders, estimates  regulatory and voluntary climate-related reporting by 
are used, when necessary. However, using estimated data  companies will likely increase the availability of reported 
reduces the reliability of the metrics since estimated  data over time, which should improve data quality. 
emissions may not accurately reflect the actual emissions 
Lagged Data
of any given company. 
ESGdata reporting by companies is often produced on a 
The PCAF Standard recognizes that data availability is a  lag relative to financial data –as most ESG data disclosure 
challenge for GHG emissions reporting by financial  and reporting takes place on an annual basis and requires 
institutions and provides a methodology for computing a  significant time to produce. In addition, there may be a lag 
Data Quality Score (ranging from “1” –highest quality to  between the time when data is disclosed by companies and 
“5” –lowest quality). The PCAF Data Quality Score is  when it is incorporated into the dataset produced by MSCI. 
designed to provide insight on the level of estimation  While BlackRock sought to mitigate the impact of lagged 
involved with disclosure of financed emissions. An overview  data on the estimates by varying the holdings analysis date 
of the PCAF Data Quality score is provided in Exhibit M.8. and the emissions effective date, emissions data included 
in the analysis for a given holding each year may reflect 
GHGemissions from prior year(s) for at least a subset of 
holdings included in the analysis.
Exhibit M.8: PCAFData Quality Scores Overview
CERTAIN Reported  EVIC is 
Score 1
Emissions known
Score 2
Emissions 
estimated based 
on physical intensities
Score 3
Score 4 Emissions estimated 
based on economic 
intensities
Score 5 EVIC is 
not known
UNCERTAIN
Note that the above figure is oversimplified for illustrative purposes. Please refer to PCAF Standard for additional detail.
BlackRock 2021 TCFD Report 44
Backward-Looking exclusively, due to changes in EVIC from one period to the 
While BlackRock believes that absolute emissions and  next. In other words, as financial institutions use the 
carbon footprint are an appropriate starting point for its  metrics defined by PCAF to demonstrate progress towards 
decarbonization of their portfolios, market volatility can 
firm-level reporting of climate-related and portfolio 
introduce noise that reduces comparability from one year to 
alignment metrics, it is worth noting that these metrics are 
backward-looking in that that they only consider past  the next. Other factors that drive changes in absolute 
emissions of investees. They do not provide an assessment  emissions are: (i) changes to emissions of the underlying 
investee companies, and (ii) changes to asset allocation. 
of how those investees may evolve their businesses to 
Sensitivity to market volatility can obscure which of these 
reduce their emissions in the future based on transition 
plans, emissions reduction targets, and goals. Other  factors is driving the changes in the metric year-over-year. 
As such, the figures provided for 2019 and 2020 are not 
metrics, such as ITR and Portfolio Coverage, are better 
directly comparable. Users should proceed with caution 
placed to incorporate this forward-looking component. 
While these metrics have not been included in BlackRock’s  when drawing conclusions based on changes from one year 
2021 TCFD reporting, they may be incorporated into future  to the next. 
TCFD reports. 
It is highly likely that a significant portion of the decline in 
AUM Coverage absolute emissions and carbon footprint observed in 
Exhibit M.6 from 2019 versus 2020 is due to changes to 
As discussed in the methodology section, several asset 
EVIC. A preliminary analysis of the changes in carbon 
classes in which BlackRock makes investments on behalf of 
footprint for major indices saw 45%-60% of the decline 
its clients are not included in the preliminary estimates in 
between 2019 and 2020 attributable to changes in EVIC. In 
this TCFD report –either because insufficient data was 
other words, it is likely that a significant portion of the 
available or because methodologies to compute GHG 
reduction in carbon footprint and absolute emissions 
emissions associated with an asset class have not yet been 
observed between 2019 and 2020 is due to changes in 
established. Due to this, the figures provided in Exhibit M.6 
EVIC rather than other factors that have a greater 
represent roughly 65% of BlackRock’s 2020 AUM which 
relationship to actions taken on the part of investee 
excludes nearly 35% of BlackRock’s AUM from the analysis. 
companies, BlackRock’s clients, or BlackRock’s portfolio 
BlackRock will seek to incorporate additional asset classes 
managers.
into its TCFD reporting over time, which will naturally 
increase the amount of reported absolute emissions.   BlackRock is developing a methodology to isolate the 
sources of changes to absolute emissions and carbon 
COVID-19
footprint as well as to adjust the metrics to reduce the 
Global GHG emissions were curtailed during 2020 due to 
impact of market volatility. In addition, BlackRock is 
the COVID-19 pandemic. According to the International 
working with industry partners to establish industry 
Energy Agency, global emissions dropped by nearly 2 
consensus on how to address this limitation. BlackRock 
billion metric tons in 2020 as a result of the pandemic.18As 
intends to incorporate this work into future TCFD reporting.
such, emissions incorporated into the preliminary 
Next Steps
estimates for 2020 may reflect anomalous reductions in 
emissions that are unrelated to operating efficiencies and,  While the estimates included herein reflect a significant 
therefore, may not be sustained as the world returns to  step forward in BlackRock’s journey to provide greater 
normalcy post-COVID.  transparency to its stakeholders, the firm recognizes the 
importance of continuing to refine this analysis –in 
Sensitivity to Market Volatility
particular working to improve data quality, increase data 
The PCAF Standard has been very helpful in setting a 
coverage, and to establish methodologies for asset classes 
foundation for reporting absolute emissions and by default, 
where methodologies do not exist today.  
carbon footprint, which measures absolute emissions per 
unit of AUM. However, as a relatively new and incomplete  In addition, BlackRock will continue to work on refinements 
standard, the metrics defined by PCAF have limitations that  to the metrics, such as those to address the sensitivity of 
have yet to be addressed. One of those limitations is the  both metrics to market volatility. 
sensitivity of absolute emissions and carbon footprint to 
With these necessary refinements and expansions in mind, 
fluctuations in asset values –particularly, though not
we fully expect that the metrics will be updated through 
time.
BlackRock 2021 TCFD Report 45
Sustainability Characteristics for 
Client Reporting 
BlackRock provides publicly available data on Sustainability  Sustainability Characteristics provide investors with specific 
Characteristics of investment products offered to clients. At  non-traditional metrics. Alongside other metrics and 
the fund level, BlackRock publishes climate-related metrics  information, these enable investors to evaluate funds on 
including WACI and ITR, on product websites for ETFs and  certain ESG characteristics. Sustainability Characteristics 
mutual funds where reliable data are available.  do not provide an indication of current or future 
performance nor do they represent the potential risk and 
WACI measures a portfolio’s exposure to carbon intensive 
reward profile of a fund. They are provided for transparency 
companies by representing the estimated GHG emissions 
and for information purposes only. Sustainability 
per $1 million in sales across the fund’s holdings. WACI is 
Characteristics should not be considered solely or in 
one of the metrics recommended for client reporting in the 
isolation, but instead are one type of information that 
TCFD Supplemental Guidance for Asset Managers.19
investors may wish to consider when assessing a fund. 
Investors can use WACI as a comparable and standardized 
metric to assess the average emissions output associated  As of December 2021, one or more climate-related metrics 
with a specific portfolio.  are publicly available for funds totaling approximately $2.8 
trillion in AUM.20For more information, please see 
In December 2021, BlackRock began publishing ITR on 
www.ishares.com.
product websites for ETFs and index mutual funds (where 
reliable data are available). The ITR metric incorporates both  A large portion of the assets that BlackRock manages are 
current emissions intensity and forward-looking  held in index portfolios. These products provide numerous 
assessments of projected emissions to produce a  benefits to our clients by democratizing access to 
temperature indication, expressed in half-degree Celsius  diversified and professionally managed portfolios for 
bands. ITR can help shed light on whether indexes and  millions of investors around the world. Index funds, by their 
portfolios are progressing toward the temperature goal of  very nature, are meant to reflect the underlying markets in 
the Paris Agreement, which calls for countries to limit global  which they invest. As such, the WACI and ITR of index funds 
warming to well below 2°C, and ideally 1.5°C. For further  reflect the underlying markets in which those funds invest. 
information, please see Lighting the path to a low-carbon  For illustrative purposes, Exhibit M.9 provides examples of 
economy | iShares –BlackRock. the WACI and ITR of several representative index portfolios. 
Exhibit M.9: Illustrative Examples of WACI and ITR for Representative Index Portfolios
WACI  ITR
Index Portfolio Description
(tCO e/US $ million sales)  (degrees Celsius)
2
US Equities -Large Cap 134.1 2.5-3 ºC
(99.05%) (99.03%)
European Equities -Large/Mid Cap 128.8 2.5-3 ºC
(99.02%) (98.58%)
Global Equities -Large/Mid Cap 152.9 2.5-3 ºC
(99.13%) (98.95%)
Emerging Markets -Large/Mid Cap 331.7 >3 ºC
(98.55%) (98.11%)
US Equities -Large/Mid Cap Growth 32.7 2-2.5 ºC
(98.70%) (98.65%)
US Equities -High Dividend 238.5 2-2.5 ºC
(98.58%) (98.54%)
US Equities -Quality 96.8 2-2.5 ºC
(99.74%) (99.74%)
Numbers in parentheses represent data coverage for each representative portfolio.
For disclosures of WACI and ITR for additional funds managed by BlackRock, please visit www.iShares.com. The WACI and ITR measures used for these portfolios are attributable to 
MSCI. Percentage figures represent data coverage. iShares anticipates that the numbers seen here will change over time. Updates will be reflected on www.ishares.com.
BlackRock 2021 TCFD Report 46
Endnotes
About this Report
1. See the TCFD Recommendations: https://assets.bbhub.io/company/sites/60/2021/10/FINAL-2017-TCFD-Report.pdf
2. The inclusion of information contained in this report should not be construed as a characterization regarding the materialityorfinancial impact of that information. Please 
also see our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on February 25, 2021 (“2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K”) and other publicly filed documents available at 
https://ir.blackrock.com/.
Executive Summary
1. The dedicated sustainable investment platform includes: 1) strategies with an explicit ESG objective which may include a targeted quantifiable ESG outcome (“Broad ESG”); 2) 
strategies that capitalize on long-term transformative industry or societal trends through pursuit of specific E, S, or G themes(“Thematic”); 3) strategies where investments are 
made with the intention to generate positive measurable social and environmental impact alongside financial return (“Impact”)and; 4) screened strategies that incorporate 
BlackRock’s baseline screens (“Dedicated Screened”). BlackRock’s definition of impact investments is in line with the International Finance Corporation’s Operating Principles 
for Impact Management.
2. Source: Larry Fink’s 2021 Letter to CEOs: https://www.blackrock.com/corporate/investor-relations/larry-fink-ceo-letter.
3. A Climate Transition Benchmark is a benchmark where the underlying assets in the benchmark are selected, weighted, or excluded in such a manner that the resulting 
benchmark portfolio is on a decarbonization trajectory. Paris-aligned Benchmark is a benchmark where the underlying assets are selected in such a manner that the resulting 
benchmark portfolio's GHG emissions are aligned with the long-term global warming target of the Paris Climate Agreement. Definitions provided by the EU Technical Expert 
Group on Sustainable Finance. See: https://ec.europa.eu/info/sites/default/files/business_economy_euro/events/documents/finance-events-190624-presentation-
climate-benchmarks_en.pdf
4. See “Temasek and BlackRock Launch Decarbonization Investment Partnership” (April 12, 2021).
5. See “Climate risk and the transition to a low-carbon economy” (February 2021). Available at: https://www.blackrock.com/corporate/literature/publication/blk-commentary-
climate-risk-and-energy-transition.pdf.
6. BlackRock achieved and maintains carbon neutrality in its Scope 1, Scope 2, and select Scope 3 categories including Business Travel, Employee Commuting (company 
provided shuttles in India only), Fuel & Energy-Related Activities (“FERA”), Upstream Leased Assets, Upstream Transportation & Distribution, and Waste.
7. BlackRock achieved its 100% renewable electricity goal to match the same amount of renewable electricity as the electricity thatour global operations (including data 
centers) consume annually. We contract directly for renewable electricity wherever possible (approximately 50%). Where we do nothave operational control to procure our 
own, or where renewable electricity is not available, we purchase environmental attribute certificates as a means of achieving our 100% renewable electricity goal.
8. BlackRock’s support for this initiative was made via grants recommended to and paid by the BlackRock Charitable Trust, a donor-advised fund.
9. As defined by Breakthrough Energy: The Green Premium is the additional cost of choosing a clean technology over one that emits agreater amount of greenhouse gases. 
Available at: https://www.breakthroughenergy.org/our-challenge/the-green-premium.
10. Holdings values as of 9/30/21. Includes funds for which Implied Temperature Rise (“ITR”) was first published in December 2021.
Governance
1. Sustainability matters, for the purposes of this TCFD report, include: the integration of ESG factors into investment processes,sustainable investment strategies, investment 
stewardship engagement on climate-related matters, corporate sustainability strategy and disclosures, and public policy and philanthropic activities related to climate change.
Strategy (ESG Integration, Investment Stewardship, Investment Strategies, Aladdin)
1. More information available at: https://www.gfanzero.com/about/GFANZ sub-sectoral net zero initiatives including: Net-Zero Banking Alliance (“NZBA”), Net Zero Asset 
Managers Initiative (“NZAMI”), Net-Zero Asset Owner Alliance (“NZAOA”), Institutional Investor Group on Climate Change’s Paris Aligned Investment Initiative (“PAII”) and Net-
Zero Insurance Alliance (“NZIA”). Information as of November 2021. BlackRock applauds the development of these initiatives and is participating in several of them
2. See BlackRock Investment Stewardship’s approach to engagement on climate risk and natural capital. (February 2021). Available at: 
https://www.blackrock.com/corporate/literature/publication/blk-commentary-climate-risk-and-energy-transition.pdfand 
https://www.blackrock.com/corporate/literature/publication/blk-commentary-engagement-on-natural-capital.pdf.
3. See the BlackRock Investment Stewardship special report “Our approach to sustainability,” that outlines the team’s engagement approach and voting on climate risk and other 
sustainability topics (July 2020). Available at: https://www.blackrock.com/corporate/literature/publication/our-commitment-to-sustainability-full-report.pdf
4. The climate focus universe was created objectively based on GHG emissions provided by MSCI, it does not reflect a BIS assessmentof the climate strategies of companies. In 
fact, many of the companies are leaders in their sectors that have articulated climate adaptation strategies, committed to rigorous GHG reduction targets, and are creating the 
technologies and solutions that are vital for a low-carbon transition. Others on the list, however, are at an earlier stage in their energy transition strategy 
development/integration.
5. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (2018), “Mitigation Pathways Compatible with 1.5°C in the Context of Sustainable Development,” in An IPCC Special Report on 
the impacts of global warming. Available at: https://www.ipcc.ch/site/assets/uploads/sites/2/2019/05/SR15_Chapter2_Low_Res.pdf
6. BlackRock (February 2021). BlackRock’s “Launching climate-aware asset class return expectations”.
BlackRock 2021 TCFD Report 4477
7. The dedicated sustainable investment platform includes: 1) strategies with an explicit ESG objective which may include a targeted quantifiable ESG outcome (“Broad ESG”); 2) 
strategies that capitalize on long-term transformative industry or societal trends through pursuit of specific E, S, or G themes(“Thematic”); 3) strategies where investments are 
made with the intention to generate positive measurable social and environmental impact alongside financial return (“Impact”)and; 4) screened strategies that incorporate 
BlackRock’s baseline screens (“Dedicated Screened”). BlackRock’s definition of impact investments is in line with the International Finance Corporation’s Operating Principles 
for Impact Management.
8. See “BlackRock Launches Two New Carbon Transition ETFs Underpinned by Proprietary Climate Analytics” (April 9, 2021). 
9. A Climate Transition Benchmark is a benchmark where the underlying assets in the benchmark are selected, weighted, or excluded in such a manner that the resulting 
benchmark portfolio is on a decarbonization trajectory. Paris-aligned Benchmark is a benchmark where the underlying assets are selected in such a manner that the resulting 
benchmark portfolio's GHG emissions are aligned with the long-term global warming target of the Paris Climate Agreement. Definitions provided by the EU Technical Expert 
Group on Sustainable Finance. See: https://ec.europa.eu/info/sites/default/files/business_economy_euro/events/documents/finance-events-190624-presentation-
climate-benchmarks_en.pdf
10. Equity ETF Channel, Brenton Garen. (September 24, 2020). “iShares Launcher New Suite  of ESG Screened ETFs”. 
11. For more information, please see www.iShares.com.
12. Note that the term “Active” is used to refer to investment strategies that seek to achieve returns that are greater than a benchmark return, as well as absolute return strategies. 
This is terminology is meant to distinguish this subset of products from index investment strategies, which seek to track an index.
13. The Ellen MacArthur Foundationworks to inspire a generation to re-think, re-design and build a positive future circular economy. Additional information available at: 
https://www.ellenmacarthurfoundation.org/.
14. As defined by EMF, a circular economy is a systems solution framework that tackles global challenges like climate change, biodiversity loss, waste, and pollution. It is based on 
three principles, driven by design:(i)eliminate waste and pollution, (ii) circulate products and materials (at their highest value), and (iii) regenerate nature. Additional 
information available at: https://emf.thirdlight.com/link/vj6i9k5yax0n-1fkyvu/@/preview/1?o.
15. From BlackRock’sFundamental Equities Impact team based on analysis of company data and reports. More information available at: 
https://www.blackrock.com/ca/institutional/en/literature/whitepaper/global-impact-annual-report.pdf.
16. See Kazdin, J., K. Schwaiger, V.-S. Wendt, and A. Ang, 2021, Climate Alpha with Predictors also Improving Firm Efficiency, forthcoming Journal of Impact andESG Investing.
17. LEED is the most widely used green building rating system in the world. More information available at: https://www.usgbc.org/help/what-leed.
18. These KPIs are normalized to ensure comparable scoring, at scale, across E, S and G sectors.
19. See “Sustainable Debt Issuance Hits $3 Trillion Threshold” (June 10, 2021). 
20. See 2018 Green Bond Principals (most recently updated, June 2018) Available at: https://www.icmagroup.org/assets/documents/Regulatory/Green-Bonds/Green-
BondsPrinciples-June-2018-270520.pdf
21. Data sourced from IEA, Bloomberg New Energy Finance, New Energy Outlook 2019. Refers to expected investment in renewables up to 2050. Available at: 
https://about.bnef.com/new-energy-outlook-2019/.
22. See more at “Decarbonization Partners” (BlackRock 2021). Available at: https://www.blackrock.com/corporate/sustainability/blackrock-temasek
23. See “BlackRock invests $1.2bn in Credit Suisse-sponsored vehicle for solar energy” (February 2021).
24. Waters technology, 2021. BST Awards 2021: Best buy-side risk management initiative over the last 12 months—BlackRock. Available at: 
https://www.waterstechnology.com/awards-rankings/7894016/bst-awards-2021-best-buy-side-risk-management-initiative-over-the-last-12-months-blackrock
25. BlackRock’s partnership with Rhodium began in April 2019. BlackRock deepened this partnership by acquiring Rhodium’s climate risk models related to the physical risks of 
climate change in September 2021.
Strategy (Risks, opportunities & scenario analysis)
1. This refers to the sale of BlackRock, Inc. securities by those who hold shares of BlackRock, Inc. stock.
2. As of December 2020, BlackRock owned an 84,500 square foot office building in Wilmington (Delaware) and a 43,000 square foot data center in Amherst (New York). 
However, BlackRock otherwise primarily leases office space, including in New York City (New York), and throughout the world, including Atlanta (Georgia), Belgrade (Serbia), 
Boston (Massachusetts), Budapest (Hungary), Edinburgh (UK), Mumbai (India), Gurgaon (India), Hong Kong, London (UK), Melbourne (Australia), Mexico City (Mexico), 
Munich (Germany), Princeton (New Jersey), San Francisco (California), Seattle (Washington), Frankfurt (Germany), Santa Monica(California), Singapore (Singapore), Sydney 
(Australia), Taipei (Taiwan) and Tokyo (Japan).
3. See Recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures, page 25 (June 2017). Available at: 
https://assets.bbhub.io/company/sites/60/2020/10/FINAL-2017-TCFD-Report-11052018.pdf.
4. Please see page 22 for an overview of Aladdin Climate.
5. Integrated assessment models are primarily used to conduct cost-benefit analysis of emission reduction strategies at the global level (Mastrandreaet al. 2010).
BlackRock 2021 TCFD Report 4488
6. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (“IPCC”) defines physical risk as risk to facilities and infrastructure, impactonoperations, water and raw material availability 
and supply chain disruptions. See more in the concept of risk in the IPCC Sixth Assessment Report: a summary of cross WorkingGroup discussions (September 2020). 
Available at: https://www.ipcc.ch/site/assets/uploads/2021/02/Risk-guidance-FINAL_15Feb2021.pdf .
7. The Integrated Assessment Modeling Consortium is an organization of scientific research institutions that pursues scientific understanding of issues associated with 
integrated assessment modeling and analysis. See more at https://www.iamconsortium.org/. 
8. IPCC, 2014. Climate Change 2014: Synthesis Report. Contribution of Working Groups I, II and III to the Fifth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 
Change. Available at: https://www.ipcc.ch/assessment-report/ar5/.
Strategy (Operations, Social Impact, Industry Engagement & Public Policy)
1. BlackRock achieved and maintains carbon neutrality in its Scope 1, Scope 2, and select Scope 3 categories including Business Travel, Employee Commuting (company 
provided shuttles in India only), Fuel & Energy-Related Activities (“FERA”), Upstream Leased Assets, Upstream Transportation & Distribution, and Waste. 
2. BlackRock achieved its 100% renewable electricity goal to match the same amount of renewable electricity as the electricity thatBlackRock’s global operations (including 
data centers) consume annually. BlackRock contracts directly for renewable electricity wherever possible (approximately 50%).Where BlackRock does not have operational 
control to procure its own electricity, or where renewable electricity is not available, BlackRock purchases environmental attribute certificates as a means of achieving its 
100% renewable electricity goal. 
3. Note that the COVID-19 pandemic impacted our operating model, leading to declines in emissions that may not persist over time. Between 2014 and 2019, BlackRock 
reduced Scope 1 and 2 (location-based) emissions by 22% as compared to a 32% reduction between 2014 and 2020.
4. See Sustaining BlackRock through COVID-19. Available at: https://www.blackrock.com/corporate/literature/publication/sustaining-blk-through-covid-19.pdf.
5. BlackRock’s most recent normal operating year. In 2019, BlackRock had a 15% expansion in square footage and a 40% increase inheadcount.
6. Our data centers consume 75% less energy than the typical enterprise data center does for cooling and electrical support. Ourenterprise data centers operate at a PUE of 1.1 
and 1.2; the industry average data center PUE is 1.8.
7. Environmental attribute certificates (“EACs”), also known as renewable energy certificates (“RECs”) in the US, are tradeable instruments that represent the legal rights to the 
environmental attributes of one megawatt-hour (“MWh”) of renewable electricity generation. EACs and RECs are issued when one MWhof electricity is generated and 
delivered to the electricity grid from a renewable energy resource.
8. REDD+ refers to countries' efforts to  reduce emissions from deforestation and forest degradation, and foster conservation, sustainable management of forests, and 
enhancement of forest carbon stocks.
9. You can read more about this announcement and the Catalyst Program on BlackRock’s Social Impact website. Available at: https://www.blackrock.com/corporate/about-
us/social-impact/breakthrough-energy.  
10. Echoing Green’s approach and portfolio statistics are available at https://echoinggreen.org/issues/climate-change/.
11. See BlackRock’s response to the SFC on their Consultation Paper on the Management and Disclosure of Climate-related Risks by Fund Managers (2021) Available at: 
https://www.blackrock.com/corporate/literature/publication/sfc-consultation-on-climate-risk-011521.pdf. BlackRock’s response to the SEC’s Request for Input on Climate 
Change disclosure is available at: https://www.blackrock.com/corporate/literature/publication/sec-rfi-climate-change-disclosures-061121.pdf. 
12. See “Sustainability Reporting: Convergence to Accelerate Progress” (October 2020). Available at: https://www.blackrock.com/corporate/literature/publication/blk-
commentary-sustainability-reporting-convergence.pdf.
13. See IFRS Consultation paper on Sustainability reporting (September 2020). Available at: https://cdn.ifrs.org/-/media/project/sustainability-reporting/consultation-paper-
on-sustainability-reporting.pdf. See here for more information on IFRS Sustainability Reporting project. Available at: https://www.ifrs.org/projects/work-plan/sustainability-
reporting/#current-stage. See here for BlackRock’s response to IFRS Consultation paper on Sustainability report. Available at: 
https://www.blackrock.com/corporate/literature/publication/blk-response-to-ifrsf-on-sustainability-reporting-standards.pdf. 
14. See “IFRS Foundation announces International Sustainability Standards Board, consolidation with CDSB and VRF, and publicationof prototype disclosure requirements” 
(November 2021).  Available at: https:/www.ifrs.org/news-and-events/news/2021/11/ifrs-foundation-announces-issb-consolidation-with-cdsb-vrf-publication-of-
prototypes/. 
Metrics and Targets
1. Please see LRQA Independent Assurance Statement Relating to BlackRock, Inc. GHG Inventory. Available at: https://www.blackrock.com/corporate/literature/continuous-
disclosure-and-important-information/lqra-assurance-statement-2020-ghgemissions.pdfail -2020-ghgemissions.pdf.  
2. The term “carbon footprint” in this report refers to absolute emissions financed by BlackRock’s clients’ investments divided by BlackRock’s AUM (rounded to $ millions) in 
those securities. This aligns with the terminology used in the European Union’s Sustainable Financed Disclosure Regulation (“SFDR”). 
3. World Resources Institute and World Business Council for Sustainable Development (2020). Technical Guidance for Calculating Scope 3 Emissions. Chapter 15, Category 
15: Investments. See for e.g., page 141 (“Whether an organization is required to report on equity investments depends on whose capital is being invested. Asset owners are 
investing their own capital, so they are required to report emissions from equity investments (although they may establish a threshold, as described in table 15.1).Asset 
managers investing clients’ capital may optionally report on emissions from equity investments managed on behalf of clients (e.g., mutual funds). Emissions from these types 
of equity investments can be calculated using the methods described in this section, however it should be noted that mutual funds and other funds managed on behalf of 
clients are not the primary audience for the calculation methods described here and some of their specific issues have not been addressed, including the business goals 
relevant to a fund manager and the appropriate use of inventory results.”)Available at https://ghgprotocol.org/sites/default/files/standards_supporting/Chapter15.pdf. 
4. This is one of the reasons why BlackRock joined the Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials (“PCAF”) in 2021 to support thedevelopment of financial industry 
standards for reporting emissions associated with financial activities. 
BlackRock 2021 TCFD Report 4499
5. BlackRock primarily holds seed and co-investments in sponsored investment products that invest in a variety of asset classes. Investments generally are made for co-
investment purposes, to establish a performance track record, or for regulatory purposes. BlackRock does not engage in proprietary trading activities that could conflict with 
the interests of its clients. GHG emissions associated with BlackRock’s AUM are reported separately in Exhibit M.6.
6. In-scope derivatives are derivatives with corporate issuer underlier and include equity warrants and options, convertible debt and equity, total return swaps, and credit default 
swaps. The following derivative types are out of scope: equity index options, currency options, options on commodities and volatility index, CDX, swaps (other than CDS and 
total return), and synthetics.
7. The term “carbon footprint” in this report refers to absolute emissions financed by BlackRock’s clients’ investments in corporate securities and real estate divided by 
BlackRock’s AUM (rounded to $ millions) in those investments. This aligns with the terminology used in the European Union’s Sustainable Financed Disclosure Regulation 
(“SFDR”)..
8. In-scope derivatives are derivatives with corporate issuer underliers and include equity warrants and options, convertible debt and equity, total return swaps, and credit default 
swaps. The following derivative types are out of scope: equity index options, currency options, options on commodities and volatility index, CDX, swaps (other than CDS and 
total return), and synthetics.
9. BlackRock was represented on the TCFD’s Portfolio Alignment Team in the publication of a report titled “Measuring Portfolio Alignment: Assessing the Position of Companies 
and Portfolios on the Path to Net Zero” which provided an assessment of the options available to measure the alignment of financial portfolios with climate goals.
10. While absolute emissions for AUM is intellectually consistent with other emissions metrics reported at the corporate level, it is worth noting that a significant majority of the 
investments BlackRock makes on behalf of its clients are in publicly traded equity and debt securities. Unlike emissions associated with real economy activities, the buying and 
holding of equity or fixed income securities does not cause the release of GHG emissions into the atmosphere. In that sense, GHGemissions for AUM are decidedly different 
than Scope 1 and 2 emissions (as well as many categories of Scope 3 emissions) reported by companies, where the metric reflects activities that directly result in the release of 
emissions into the atmosphere.
11. Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2019 on sustainability-related disclosures in the financial services sector. 
Although BlackRock, Inc. is not in scope of the SFDR, individual subsidiary entities of BlackRock, Inc. are subject to this regulation.
12. About | PCAF. PCAF (2021). Available at: https://carbonaccountingfinancials.com/about. BlackRock joined PCAF in 2021.
13. We also consulted the Corporate GHG Protocol, and the EU SFDR Regulatory Technical Standards.
14. International Capital Markets Association (2021). The Green Bond Principles. Available at: https://www.icmagroup.org/assets/documents/Sustainable-finance/2021-
updates/Green-Bond-Principles-June-2021-140621.pdf
15. PCAF is consulting on methodologies for green bonds. The methodology utilized by BlackRock differs from the green bonds methodology currently being proposed by PCAF. 
Note: green bonds reflect only 0.3% of BlackRock’s AUM as of December 31, 2020.
16. Global financial assets totaled $431 trillion in 2020, according to Global Wealth 2021: When Clients Take the Lead, a report by Boston Consulting Group (June 2021). 
Available at: https://web-assets.bcg.com/d4/47/64895c544486a7411b06ba4099f2/bcg-global-wealth-2021-jun-2021.pdf
17. UN Environment Programme(2021). Emissions Gap Report. Available at: https://www.unep.org/resources/emissions-gap-report-2021
18. IEA (2020). “After steep drop in early 2020, global carbon dioxide emissions have rebounded strongly”. Available at: https://www.iea.org/news/after-steep-drop-in-early-
2020-global-carbon-dioxide-emissions-have-rebounded-strongly
19. Please see TCFD Supplemental Guidance for Asset Managers on pages 38-43 of Implementing the Recommendations of the TCFD. Available at: 
https://assets.bbhub.io/company/sites/60/2020/10/FINAL-TCFD-Annex-Amended-121517.pdf 
20. Holdings values as of 9/30/21. ITR was first published on funds in December 2021.
BlackRock 2021 TCFD Report 5500
Additional Resources
For further information on our sustainability efforts, please see:
2020 Sustainability Commitments & Progress
• BlackRock’s 2020 Sustainability Actions
• 2021 Net Zero Commitments, Letter to Clients
Investment Stewardship
• 2022 Global Principles
• 2021 Engagement Priorities
• 2021 Stewardship Expectations
• 2021 Voting Spotlight 
• 2020 Calendar Year Annual Report
• BlackRock Investment Stewardship 2020 Annual Report
• BlackRock Investment Stewardship Sustainability Report
ESG Integration
• BlackRock's approach to integrating sustainability-related factors into portfolio 
management
• 2020 PRI Report
• ESG Integration Statement
BlackRock Investment Institute Research
• Troubled Waters: Financial Risks of Water Scarcity
• Getting Physical 
• Sustainability: the bond that endures 
• Sustainability: the future of investing
Corporate Sustainability
• Where We Stand: On the journey to prosperity for more and more people
• 2020 BlackRock Annual Report
• 2020 Sustainability Disclosure
Disclosures
This report contains information about BlackRock and may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private 
Securities Litigation Reform Act. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, may be forward-looking statements, including 
statements related to BlackRock’s climate and other sustainability-related strategies, plans, developments, targets, goals, and 
expectations. 
BlackRock cautions that forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks, and uncertainties, which change over 
time. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and BlackRock assumes no duty to and does not undertake to 
update forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in forward-looking statements and future 
results could differ materially from historical performance. 
Factors that can cause results to differ, as well as additional factors that can affect forward-looking statements, are discussed in 
BlackRock’s Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, accessible on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov and on
BlackRock’s website at www.blackrock.com.
The information provided herein is based in part on information from third-party sources that BlackRock believes to be reliable,but which 
has not been independently verified by BlackRock, and BlackRock does not represent that the information is accurate or complete.The 
inclusion of information contained in this report should not be construed as a characterization regarding the materiality or financial 
impact of that information. 
Important Notes: This document includes non-financial metrics that are subject to measurement uncertainties resulting from limitations 
inherent in the nature and the methods used for determining such data. The selection of different but acceptable measurement techniques 
can result in materially different measurements. The precision of different measurement techniques may also vary. The information set 
forth herein is expressed as of December 2021 and BlackRock reserves the right to update its measurement techniques and methodologies 
in the future.
© 2021 BlackRock, Inc. All Rights Reserved. BlackRock®, iShares® and Aladdin® are trademarks of BlackRock, Inc., or its subsidiaries in the 
United States and elsewhere.