
Published in September 2021 and including an update as of June 2021
I. INTRODUCTION p. 3
II. A COMMITTED COMPANY p. 7
III. SUSTAINABILITY INVESTING  p. 18 This sustainability report aims to provide the information that is
material and relevant for our stakeholders to form a view on how
Tikehau Capital SCA and its affiliates (‘Tikehau Capital’ or
IV. FOCUS ON CLIMATE APPROACH p. 23 ‘the Group’) are performing on environmental, social and
governance (‘ESG’) criteria both at group level (see section II)
and at investment level (sections III-VI). There have been no
V. FOCUS ON IMPACT APPROACH p. 27 significant changes from previous reporting periods in the material
topics we are reporting on. This report relates to the financial year
to 31 December 2020. Due to timing delays at portfolio company
VI. SUSTAINABILITY INVESTING ACROSS OUR ACTIVITIES p. 30 level, this report was published in September 2021 and comprises
anupdateonevents until September1st,2021.
Appendix 1
Tikehau Capital considers that the Global Reporting Initiative
GRI CONTENT INDEX  p.51
(‘GRI’), Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (‘SASB’) and
Appendix 2 Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 on Sustainable Finance Disclosure
SASB CONTENT  p. 55 Regulation (“SFDR”) constitute its main ESG reference standards
andcross-referencingtablesareavailable in Appendices.
Appendix 3
SFDR & PRINCIPAL ADVERSE IMPACT INDICATORS p. 57
This report should be read in conjunction with the Tikehau Capital
Appendix 3 Universal Registration Document 2021 and with the Sustainability
SFDR & ARTICLE 29 CROSS REFERENCING TABLE p. 58 policies published ontheGroupwebsite here.
Appendix 5
CARBON FOOTPRINT ASSESSMENT p. 61
Appendix 6
TCFD – MANAGEMENT OF PHYSICAL AND TRANSITION RISK p. 62

I. INTRODUCTION
Tikehau Capital is a major player in alternative asset management and
has been developing and cultivating its pioneering vision
for over fifteen years. We support our clients with sustainable financing
solutions, taking a responsible approach to investment. We seek
profitability while supporting companies. Our investment strategy
helps match global savings with the financing needs of real-
economyplayers onadailybasis.
With offices in Europe, North America and Asia, our team
of experts closely follows our clients’ interests with four areas
of expertise: private debt, real assets, private equity and capital markets partners and employees assets under management group shareholders' equity
strategies. We strive to adopt a unique approach in each of these areas,
driven by an atypical way of thinking and an alternative vision.
Our independent mindset and analysis mean that we can offer
conviction-based management, underpinned by a strong alignment
ofinterestsbetweenshareholders,managementand clients.
asset management business lines
supported by  multidisciplinary strategic activity
Our profitable sustainable development model is built on a solid equity
base, selective investments, successful strategies and strong growth.
This approach, combined with our entrepreneurial spirit and the mutual
trust and interest of shareholders, management and clients, makes
TikehauCapital auniqueplayer in theassetmanagementindustry.
subsidiaries alongside Tikehau IM (“TIM”), Tikehau Capital Europe (“TCE”), 
Tikehau Capital north America (“TCNA”) 
As of June 30, 2021
I. INTRODUCTION
Theglobal crisis has revealed thefragilityof our economic system and its lack of Despite all the claims, the financial system is clearly not yet doing enough.
resilience, shining a light on the climate emergencyand biodiversity collapse. As As an asset manager, we have both the responsibility to launch funds
a stakeholder in the financial system, we aim to generate returns on savings, dedicated to fighting climate change and biodiversity collapse, but also to
financetherealeconomyand contribute toglobalefforts towards meeting carbon engage across our mainstream portfolios to ensure support for the real
neutralitygoals. economy to transition. Armed with the benefit of scientific and sector-led
insights, we aim to make fully informed investment decisions about how and
In many regions, warming has already surpassed 1.5 degrees Celsius above where to allocate global savings to ensure they reach companies with the
pre-industrial levels. To avoid radical transitions and dramatic social costs, the potential to contribute to a systemic change. For example, over the coming
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) indicates that emissions decade, the IEA identifies investments in energy efficiency, green energy and
needtoreachamaximumnolaterthanin2030. low-carbon transport as a priority, and other frameworks such as the EU
Taxonomyarealsoprovidingtechnicaladvicetoselectinvestments.
So we only have 3,000 days to unwind 50 years of unsustainable growth
and return to 1970 emissions rates. This does not mean that we advocate Our teams are very motivated and develop dedicated products alongside
a shrinking economy, it means that we should take coordinated action to ensure climate and ESG experts. We recently announced the launch of a platform
thetransition. dedicated to low carbon transition and decarbonisation of the economy,
although this is onlyone element of our Sustainable Investing approach. Such
In its Net Zero by 2050 report, the International Energy Agency (IEA) identifies a
vital topics as diversity and inclusion (D&I) and innovation are also addressed
pathway to reach net zero through a radical transformation of the global energy
throughourthematicinvestments.
system. Fortunately, most of the technologies needed to achieve the necessary
deep cuts in global emissions by 2030 already exist and the global investment Morethanever,weargueforalong-term approachandvision.Webelievethat
efforts needed represent $5 trillion per annum by 2030, less than 3% of global patient capital, either listed or unlisted, is useful for companies and that the
AuMestimatedatcirca$110trillion. vast network of medium-sized companies plays a vital role in driving
transformation. We see ourselves as facilitators and catalysts of model
transitions via the various financing solutions that we offer. Equally, we see
ourselves as sparring partners with a role to share best practice and seek
opportunities related to a transition toward a low carbon and more sustainable
andinclusive economy.
1/ dated May 2021 and available here
I. INTRODUCTION
MULTI-LOCAL  HIGHLY DIVERSE  ROBUST FINANCIAL  ALIGNMENT OF INTERESTS BETWEEN SHAREHOLDERS, 
PLATFORM EXPERTISE STRUCTURE INVESTOR-CLIENTS AND MANAGEMENT
12 15 Assets under management:
Lending institutional shareholders 
countries years of experience  €30.9bn
committed over the long-term
on average
Globalbase  Group shareholders’ equity: 
56% of capital controlled 
of investor-clients  26 €2.9bn
by our management and employees
and savers nationalities
Fitch Credit Rating: 
Globalsourcing 41%  BBB-/Stable  64%of our portfolio invested in our strategies 
of investment  women  alongside our clients
At 30 June 2020 Tikehau Capital invests
opportunities in the workforce
global savings to 
toward 
a more 
creating value 
for all stakeholders
ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT
3  CONVICTION-BASED  LONG-TERM 
Private  Real  Private  Capital Markets 
DRIVERS MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES
Debt Assets Equity Strategies 
€9.9bn €10.9bn €5.4bn1 €4.7bn Over 240 companies financed  Over €35bn 
Performance  through our long-term strategies in assets under 
Management 
fees Cfeaerrsie /d   A dedicated impact  management 
interest and thematic investment  Fee-related earnings
platform focusing on above €100m
Dividends / 
Coupons /  Climate Healthcare BY 2022
Capital gains
95% Over €1bn Over €1bn
of the assets under management in closed-end funds committed 
for 3 years or more Innovation Social inclusion
1Of which €3.9bn for Asset Management and €1.5bn for Direct Investments
* At June 30, 2021 excluding figures on capital controlled by management dated July 15, 2021.

II. A COMMITTED COMPANY
UN PRI signatory Creation of proprietary ESG grid Achieved A+ for the UN PRI  Renewed A+ for the UN PRI  Signatory of the Net Zero Asset 
Strategy & Governance module  Strategy & Governance module  Manager Initiative (accredited 
Creation of dedicated ESG role
in 2019 and A+ for the Fixed income  by the United Nations Framework 
First sustainability report  module in 2020 Convention on Climate Change)
All financial analysts given ESG 
published
responsibilities and definition  Development of a platform 
Definition of the Group’s CSR 
of tailored ESG strategies  dedicated to impact and the climate 
policy
for each business line (T2 Energy Transition, Tikehau 
Employee shareholding scheme 
Impact Lending)
at Tikehau Capital SCA level Set-up of an ESG Committee 
Partner of One 
at Group level and ESG  Private debt: development of ESG 
Planet summit
Committees for each investment  ratchets mechanism
platform
Private equity: strengthening 
Launch of the T2 Energy  of ESG governance at portfolio 
Transition Fund and 1stimpact  company level 
report Development of 2 climate-related 
LuxFLAG ESG and ESG applicant  impact strategies: 
LuxFLAG ESG label for 10 major  fund status labels for 5 alternative 
open-ended funds investment funds (private debt  • Tikehau Impact Credit 
and tactical strategies) (high yield)
• North America Decarbonisation 
(private equity)*
First carbon footprint assessment 
at Group level Excellent ESG ratings Inaugural Sustainable bond issue 
for €500m with positive Second 
>60% of employee shareholders
Party Opinion
Key: 
Responsible investing
CSR approach
* This fund has not been launched 
and terms & conditions may vary.
.
II. A COMMITTED COMPANY
From investment and operations teams to the Manager and the Supervisory Board
representatives,morethan8%oftheGroupemployeesholdformalESGresponsibilities.
On a daily basis, investment analysts, managers and directors integrate ESG criteria
Marwan Lahoud
Pierre Abadie 
intheirfundamentalanalysis andstandattheforefrontofourstrategy.
Chairman 
Group Climate Director
of Ace Capital Partners 
executive board 
Guillaume Arnaud
Cécile Mayer-Lévi
Chairman of Sofidy’s 
Head of Private Debt
executive board
Mathieu Chabran
• Review our ESG and  • Comprising a deputy  • Set and oversee  • Ensure the consistency • Supervise integration  Bruno de Pampelonne
CSR strategy at every  CEO focusing on  our ESG and Climate  of our investment  of ESG policy across  Co-Founder of Tikehau 
Chairman of Tikehau IM 
meeting human capital, ESG,  policy decisions all activities Capital
and Head of Asia 
• Dedicated "Governance  communications  • Manage our CSR  • Make decisions for  • Raise awareness 
and Sustainable  and brand marketing policy complex investments  internally
Development  • Discuss ESG  (right of veto) • Engage with portfolio 
Committee"  & Climate priorities  companies Cecile Cabanis Christophe Petit
and trends Deputy CEO of Tikehau  Co-Founder and President 
Capital* of Star America 
Peter Cirenza
Chairmanof the UK,  Geoffroy Renard
Chairman of the Private 
General Counsel
Equity activity, Chairman of 
Tactical Strategies
Thomas Friedberger Laure Villepelet
Co-CIO and CEO of Tikehau  Head of ESG & CSR 
IM Secretary 
Christian de Labriffe
Daniel Cruise
Chairman of Tikehau 
•Integrate ESG considerations in the fundamental analysis for new investment  Senior Advisor
Capital’s Supervisory Board
opportunities Permanent invitee
Permanent invitee
•Develop and use highly selective proprietary grids
* At end 2020 excluding figures on Executive committee.  * From Sept.1st2021
II. A COMMITTED COMPANY
Working with key stakeholders (including employees
& client-investors), we have identified our main non-financial
Importance for Stakeholders
risks and opportunities. Organised into 6 themes, they bring
our priorities together into a robust CSR approach aimed at
maximising our positive impacton employees, consumers, the
environmentandwidercommunity.
At the heart of this strategy, our sustainable investing
approach incorporates sustainability considerations. Given
thatourpotentialforimpactismainlyrelatedtoourinvestment
decisions, we have chosen to focus on our sustainable
investing practices and results in the first chapters of this
report. At Group level, we also strive for best practices, hence
we are also seeking to develop and monitor quantitative
targetsforouroperations.
II. A COMMITTED COMPANY
Underlying measurement system for our CSR, ESG and
Impact initiatives. At the date of this report, certain targets
remainunderdiscussion.
•Seek to actively contribute to net zero 
•1Head of Climate nominated at Group 
economy at global level
level, climate strategy and interim 
targets (ongoing) •4 funds dedicated to the low carbon 
transition of the economic system 
•2proactive memberships in climate 
across 3 business lines (private equity, 
working groups (NZAM, OPPEF)**
private debt, capital markets strategy)
•Offset operational emissions at group 
•Increasingly monitor carbon intensity 
level since 2019
and physical risks
•26nationalities
•1 private debt strategy promotes 
•41% of women at Group level
a more inclusive economy 
•>60%of Group employees holding 
•Strong focus on increasing diversity 
or entitled to receive shares of Tikehau  •6 ESG ratchets negotiated with private 
amongst investment teams as well 
Capital SCA debt companies with at least one 
as executive and managing directors 
criterion on diversity & inclusion
• 65% of all Group investments  with targets 
in its own funds by 2025
•Maintainzero monetary losses 
as a result of legal proceedings*
•1digital team and data quality team
•Group employees trained  •1fund dedicated to cybersecurity
on cybersecurity
•Reference to responsible purchasing 
policy added to standard contracts.
•Target to engage with the Group’s 
5top suppliers on ESG in H1 2022
•>10partnershipswith associations 
•Robust set-up to protect employees  •1strategy dedicated to medtechs
& NGOs
during Covid (PCR tests, etc.) & biotechs
•Donation to APHP to accelerate  •>50 companies financed in pharma 
* e.g. associated with marketing and communication of financial product 
research on Covid & healthcare sector
or other breaches (fraud, insider trading, anti-trust, anti-competitive behaviour, 
market manipulation, malpractice, or other related financial industry laws 
or regulations)
** NZAM (Net Zero Asset Managers initiative) and OPPEF (One Planet Private Equity Funds) 
under the One Planet Summit umbrella
II. A COMMITTED COMPANY
Its innovative Sustainable Bond Framework allows 
Indexation of the margin of the group’s revolving 
the Group to invest in: (1) green and social 
Sustainability bond Sustainability  credit facility to relevant ESG criteria (green AuM, 
activities in line with ICMA*; and (2) eligible ESG 
linked loan gender balance in top management, alignment 
Funds aligned with the Group’s Priority SDGs 
of interest) 
(including SFDR** article 9 funds)
* International Capital Market Association (ICMA) ** Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation (SFDR) 
Entry into the Gaïa Research Index of the 
ESG rating of 12/100 (0-20 is low ESG risk) CSR best-performers among European 
midcaps
ESG rating of 65/100 corresponding  Governance score of 2/10 (1/10 = highest 
to A1 rating score possible)
ESG disclosure score of 39.5  Positive second party opinion on innovative 
(good compared to sector average) sustainable bond framework
II. A COMMITTED COMPANY
• Supervisory board including 50% independent members and 40% women. Remuneration
Tikehau Capital regularly invests its balance sheet resources in the
committee renamed Governance and Sustainable Development Committee to formalise
launch of the funds operated by the Group to create an alignment of
strategicsustainabilityplanning
interests between its balance sheet and its investor-clients, and to
• CreationofanExecutiveCommitteeactivefrom1stSept.2021including25%women provide its funds with sufficient assets to attract investors. For this
Additional details on ESGgovernance and the Climate action centre are available on pages 9 and 24 of purpose, Tikehau Capital also may make significant investments to
thisreport. seednewproducts.
The Groups increasingly invests in its own funds
• In2020,aGroupCodeofConductwaspreparedwiththeobjectiveofdefiningacommonset
of rules and principles across asset management affiliates for employees, suppliers and
39% 34%
service providers, shareholders, investors and clients, portfolio companies and other Direct  57%
stakeholders. The Code of Conduct covers: relations with customers, suppliers and external Investment
stakeholders; rules of conduct on protection and reputation; anti-corruption conduct rules;
rolesofconductforgovernance;socialconductrules;environmentalapproach. 61% 66%
Tikehau Capital 
43%
• In 2020, the Group also introduced a Code of Conduct on the prevention of corruption funds
and influence peddling. The Group encourages compliance with the highest international anti-
corruption standards for both its teams and service providers. The Group prohibits deals or 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2020
conductwhich couldbeconsideredanticompetitive.
Strong shareholders’ equity supporting the alignment of interests between shareholders,
investor-clients andmanagement
• Managementandemployeeshold56%ofcapitalasofJuly15,2021
• 62%ofemployeesareentitledtoreceiveshares
• Long-term 2022 incentive plan for senior executives based on our financial & ESG
objectives
Mathieu Chabran
Figures at end 2020 Co-founder of Tikehau Capital
II. A COMMITTED COMPANY
To offset the impact of our operations: for each ton of CO equivalent emitted by
2
our operations, we acquire the equivalent number of Verified Carbon Units from
Nevertheless, it focuses on applying best practices to reduce its footprint.
the Borneo-based Katingan Forest conservation programme certified by Verra
• Measurement of office energy consumption: 1,695MWh (2.89MWh/employee (undertheVCSStandard).
and 0.138MWh/m2) consumed across 9 main offices across the world
This project protects and restores peatland ecosystems to offer local people
compared to 1,445MWh (3.79MWh/employee and 0.208MWh/m2) consumed
sustainable sources of income, tackle global climate change and maintain
across8mainofficesin2019
biodiversity includingprotectingendangeredspecieslikeBorneanOrangutans.
• Initiatives to limit consumption at the office: avoiding printing, equipping offices
with bottle-filling stations to avoid use of plastic bottles, availability of sorting For more information: http://katinganproject.com
andrecycling bins–in2020,thisrecycling saved42treesor1,350kgofCO
2
• For offices with more than five employees, environmental indicators are
monitoredonanannualbasis.
• Determine and reduce the greenhouse gas emissions produced by our
operations. The Group is committed to measuring the carbon footprint of its
operations every two years and to communicating the results. In 2020, more
than 2,000 tons of CO equivalent (tCO e) – scopes 1, 2 & 3 (upstream)*
2 2
were estimated at the level of the operations and offset thanks to the
purchaseandcancelationofKatinganForestprogrammecertificates.
*Pleaseseep.26fordetailsofourScope3downstreamemissionsforFY2020.
II. A COMMITTED COMPANY
We began setting targets and deadlines for gender balance
in management in March 2020. The aim is to reach a minimum of 30%
ofwomeninManagingDirectorpositionsin2026and40%in2029.
• Average 15yearsofexperience • 41% of permanent workforce women
• 44net jobs created in 2020  • 23% of women across Managing Directors
at Tikehau Capital and our subsidiaries • 26 nationalities across our teams
Carmen Alonso Cécile Mayer-Lévi
• 8nationalities across Managing Directors
Head of UK and Iberia Head of Private Debt
Nathalie Bleunven Erika Morris
Head of Corporate Lending Senior Co-Portfolio Manager
Emmanuelle Costa, 
Head of human capital
Nathalie de Mortemart 
Cécile Cabanis
Head of Corporate 
Deputy CEO of Tikehau Capital*
& Securities Law
• Forexample,theLondonofficeparticipatedtothe“100BlackInterns”programme
Elizabeth Ryan
Emmanuelle Costa 
Head of Transaction 
Head of Human Capital
Management
Ongoing dialogue regarding career development, training, mobility opportunities, engagement
surveys for certain teams, as well as attractive compensation packages and benefits enabling
Laura Scolan
employees to plan for the future. For more details on our Human Capital approach and KPIs, Anne Le Stanguennec
pleaseconsultTikehauCapital2020URD(p.209-215). Head of Internal Audit Head of France and Director 
of Operations –Private Debt
Anne Maillé  Laure Villepelet
Head of Compliance and Internal  Head of ESG & CSR
Control at Tikehau IM
PierpaoloCasamento, 
Investment Vice President, Private Debt Secondaries
II. A COMMITTED COMPANY
• 18productspresentedtotheNewProductcommitteesand7launchesin2020 In early 2021, Tikehau Capital and CNP Assurances launched the first private-
• 2privateassetunit-linkedproductslaunchedwithlifeinsurancepartners equity unit-linked product on the energy transition theme, exclusively for CNP
Patrimoinecustomers.“CNPRelanceetClimat”providesindividualinvestorswith
The Group’s independent spirit has forged an investment culture of conviction, sometimes going
access – through Tikehau Capital’s private equity fund dedicated to the energy
against market trends, in keeping with Tikehau Capital’s intention to provide enhanced added
transition – to investments in unlistedassets byinvesting in the real economyto
value for its investor-clients. In an environment of mistrust toward traditional investment solution
respondtotheclimateemergency.
providers,causedbytheCovid-19virus,theGroupstrivesdailytobringinnovativeandattractive
investmentsolutionstoagrowingrangeofclients.
At the same time, Tikehau Capital and MACSF launched the first unit-linked
In 2020, the Group appointed a Business Development manager, whose mission is to drive the productthatenablessaverstoinvestinthePrivateDebtofFrenchandEuropean
firm’s business and product development by keeping innovation core unlistedSMEs,whilekeepingtheirsavingsavailable.Theevergreenformatofthe
tothegrowthstrategy. new investment solution enables investors to benefit from a high degree of
visibilityoftheevolutionintheirsavingsandliquidityatalltimes.
Efforts are made to ensure data quality and to digitalize information tools. Bertrand Honoré,
theGroup’sChiefTechnologyOfficer(CTO),reportstoHenriMarcoux,deputyCEOandmember
oftheexecutivecommittee.
All personal data is processed in compliance with the European General Data Protection
Regulation (GDPR) and other regulations, ensuring respect of fundamental rights and freedoms,
particularlytherighttoprivacy.
As a financial institution, the Group is particularly exposed to cyber-security risks, with fraud and
IT security identified as key risk factors at Group level. External penetration tests are organised
periodically and an independent external auditor is appointed annually to check the measures
takentofurtherstrengthenouractionplan. Stéphane Dessirier
Chief Executive Officer of MACSF Group
Cybersecurity training is mandatory for all Group employees every year and includes specific
attentiontophishingandadvancedpersistentthreats.
Year
II. A COMMITTED COMPANY
Amputatedofallfourlimbsfollowingadevastatingboutofmeningitisat
Youth Solidarity Days: over 12 events since 2014focusing on young people including autistic the age of six, Théo Curin overcame his disability by swimming. In
childrenandthoseaffectedbyacademicfailure 2020, this Paralympic athlete left the pool to set himself a new
challenge: swimming across Lake Titicaca in South America. Together
with two other top athletes, Malia Metella, Olympic silver medallist in
swimming, and Matthieu Witvoet, eco-adventurer, Théo plans to cross
this 122-kilometre lake located over 3,800 metres above sea level
Institut de l’Engagement: enabling young people committed to
completely independently, using a raft specially designed for the
civicparticipationtobuildanambitiousandinclusive future
purpose.TheGroupisproudtosupportthisambitiouschallenge:above
and beyond the values of self-improvement, courage and teamwork
which resonate with Tikehau Capital's culture, this expedition also
Entrepreneurs du Monde: working towards the economic highlights the predicament of Lake Titicaca, which is threatened by
inclusionoffinanciallyvulnerablefamilies urban development and global warming, and provides assistance to
disadvantagedlocalcommunities.
In early March 2020, we supported Assistance Publique-
Hôpitaux de Paris (the public hospital system of Paris and its
suburbs) in speeding up Covid-19 research, as well as testing
innovative organisational solutions for monitoring homebound
patientstorespondmorequicklyandeffectivelytonewepidemics.
In summer 2020, Tikehau Capital took part in the Funds4Food
initiative, a collaboration between various global financial players to
help fight hunger amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The donations
collected from the fund managers ($1.9m in total) were donated to
selectedcharitiesaroundtheworld.

III. SUSTAINABILITY INVESTING
OUR RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT POLICY
4 PILLARS
Purely  Thematic and  Impact first 
Exclusion ESG Integration Engagement
financial impact investing and philanthropy
Addressing 
Exclusion of certain  Integrating ESG  Working with 
environmental & social  Solving targeted 
risky sectors,  factors into  management and/or 
Focusing solely  challenges while  problems with a partial 
behaviours  financial analysis,  governance bodies to 
on financial targets. generating competitive  or total compromise on 
or jurisdictions  aiming to increase  define value-creating 
financial yields  financial performance.
to protect value. value for stakeholders. ESG measures.
for investors.
Targeting competitive financial returns
Mitigate ESG risks
Seize ESG opportunities
Laure Villepelet
Focus on solutions 
Head of ESG & CSR
with measurable impact
Signatory since 2014
Top ratings in 2020:  Excellence in ESG 2020award to Tikehau Capital 
A+ for the Strategy and Governance Module in the GP category for ESG approach by the British Private 
A+ for the Fixed Income Module in 2020  Equity & Venture Capital Association (BVCA)
and A for the Private Equity Module in 2020
16 labels - ESG and ESG Applicant Fund Status  2021 environmental fund of the year, private equity/private debt 
labels awarded to 11 major open-ended liquid funds and 5  to T2 Energy transition by the leading online news Environmental 
AIFs (TSO II, TDL V, TDL V ELTIF, TMPE, TIL)  Finance 
3 label Relance from French Ministry for the Economy 
French SRI label awarded to Sofidy’s S.YTIC fund focusing 
attributed to the T2 Energy Transition Fund, T2 ELTIF and 
on sustainable cities
Tikehau Growth Equity II
Note: As of 31.07.2021, 16 funds had either a LuxFlag ESG label or an ESG label Applicant Fund Status (awarded to 11 major open-ended liquid funds and 5 AIFs) 
and 5 funds had been awarded a Relance label (T2 Energy Transition Fund, T2 ELTIF, Tikehau Growth Equity II, Brienne III and AceAero Partenaires).
III. SUSTAINABILITY INVESTING
OuraimistodevelopanESGapproachthatisbothintegratedandcustomised.TheGroupexclusionsandourESGwatchlistapplyacrossallinvestmentactivities
to ensure maximum coherence. To encourage ourportfolio companies to adopt a progressive approach, each action is adapted to the activity, aswellas the size
andsectoroftheissuers.
CAPITAL MARKETS  REAL ASSETS DIRECT 
PRIVATE EQUITY PRIVATE DEBT
STRATEGIES REAL ESTATE  INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS
Assets under  €3.5bn (o/w €1.1bn from  €9.3bn €4.2bn €10.3bn €0.6bn (o/w 100% from  €1.2bn
managementat  Ace Capital Partners) (o/w €6.7bn from Sofidy) Star America)
end 2020
Investment  • Minority investor • At all levels of capital  • High Yield credit,  • All classes of real estate  • Infrastructure  • Investments
universe • Non-takeover situations  structure Investment Grade  assets (offices, retail,  in the social,  in an extensive sector
in an extensive sector • Senior loans, stretched  Corporate & subordinated  logistics, hospitality,  transportation,  & geographic universe
& geographic universe senior, unitranche,  instruments mainly  residential), existing telecommunications, 
• Thematic focus for certain  mezzanine, preferred  European & Asian or to be redeveloped  and environmental 
funds (e.g. energy  equity • Equities based on Core, Core+  sectors
orValueAddedstrategies
transition, cybersecurity) • Selectionof“Value”stocks
• Special Situations
Key differentiation • An entrepreneurial spirit  • A pioneer in alternative  • Allocation & selection  • Solid track record • Strong origination 
factors & ESG  shared with portfolio  financing based on conviction  • Cross-sourcing, local sourcing & European capacity
features companies • Solid partnerships  management platform
• Strong origination  with banks & private  • Fundamental top-down
Capacity for  capacity equity funds & bottom-up analysis
structuring ability, 
• Capacity for  • Capacity for tailored ESG  • ESG engagement 
innovative & flexible 
tailored support:  support on a case by case basis
investment across 
ESG, human 
all asset classes
capital, 
digitalisation, etc.
Asset  • 47 employees (Tikehau  • 34 employees • 20 employees • 86employees  • 12employees  • On an as-needed 
management  IMand AceCapital  (Tikehau IM, IREIT,  (Star America) basis
employeesat end  Partners) and Sofidy)
2020
No. ESG contacts
in investment 
teamsat end 2020 5 4 3 4 1 1
III. SUSTAINABILITY INVESTING
Key: Best practice Industry standard
REAL ASSETS
CAPITAL MARKETS  DIRECT 
PRIVATE EQUITY PRIVATE DEBT
STRATEGIES REAL ESTATE  INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS
Assets under  €3.5bn (o/w €1.1bn from  €9.3bn €4.2bn €10.3bn €0.6bn (o/w 100% from  €1.2bn
management at  Ace Capital Partners) (o/w €6.7bn from Sofidy) Star America)
end 2020
ESG exclusion 
Fully applicable Fully applicable Fully applicable Fully applicable Fully applicable Fully applicable
compliance
ESG integration
For certain 
in the pre- Fully applicable Fully applicable Fully applicable Fully applicable Fully applicable
investments
investment phase
ESG integration  27 companies in the  48 companies in  • Carbon assessments for  • Annual ESG reporting  • ESG analysis & risk 
throughout the  Tikehau IM and Ace  Tikehau IM direct  all main liquid funds campaign at Tikehau  assessment included 
investment period  Capital partners funds lending and corporate  • 2°scenario assessments  IM fund level in IC Memo
–monitoring &  participated  lending funds  for all main liquid funds • Monitoring tools at  • Ongoing ESG training
reporting in 2020 reporting  participated in the 2020  Sofidy level under  • Monitoring tools to be 
campaign reporting campaign development reinforced in 2021
• ESG clause in 
Operating 
ESG clause Green clause
ESG clause &ad hoc  Voting  Agreements and 
Engagement & sustainability  in majority of large  Voting in AGMs
sustainability roadmap in AGMs • ESG action plan 
roadmaps lease agreements
discussed with 
partners
Cybersecurity strategy,  All funds contributing 
Themed & impact  Tikehau Impact  Tikehau Impact Credit  S.YTIC dedicated to  Direct investment 
T2 Energy Transition  to infrastructure 
investment Lending strategy fund sustainable cities in impact funds**
Fund development (SDG9)
100% of main funds 
Labels &  A score in the  A+ score in  B score in the UN PRI  B+ score in the UN PRI 
have received the 
recognitions UN PRI report the UN PRI report report report
LuxFlag ESG label***
* After the transfer of a listed equities fund from France to Luxembourg in early 2021, the custodian failed to transfer the fund positions on the ISS platform and as a result the target of 100% votes in this fund could not be reached. An action plan has been defined 
(incl. setup of a reporting) to avoid the occurrence of a similar event in the future.
** T2 Energy Transition, Alter Equity 3P, Alter Equity 3P II, Blue Like an Orange Sustainable Capital or Essential Capital Consortium Fund from DWS.
***LuxembourgFinanceLabellingAgency(LuxFLAG)ESGlabelawardedtoour8mainliquidfundsin2019andrenewedin2020:TikehauCreditPlusfortheperiodstartingon01.04.2020andendingon31.03.2021,TikehauIncomeCrossAssets(InCA),Tikehau
GlobalValue,TikehauTauxVariables(TTV),TikehauSubFinFund,TikehauGlobalShortDuration,TikehauCourtTermeandTikehau2022fortheperiodstartingon01.07.2020andendingon30.06.2021.Inaddition,theprivatedebtfundsTikehauDirectLending
VandTikehauImpactLendingreceivedtheESGapplicantfundstatuslabelfortheperiodstartingon01.07.2020andendingon30.06.2021.
III. SUSTAINABILITY INVESTING
In 2020, the Group launched a project aiming at complying with the (EU) 2019/2088 regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council
of27November2019onsustainability‐relateddisclosuresinthefinancialservices sector(SFDRRegulation).Asaresult:
The Group sustainability investing policy was updated to highlight sustainability risks and principal adverse impacts that were already considered
intheinvestmentassessments.ESGdisclosureatGrouplevelwasreinforced.
The remuneration policy was updated to include ESG criteria for all Subsidiaries. ESG remuneration criteria are expected to evolve in the coming years
toreflecttheGroup’sambition.
ESGdisclosuresinthelegaldocumentsofallnewandallCapitalMarketsStrategiesfundswerereviewed andchangesareundergoingforotherfunds.
Article 8 applies “where a financial product promotes, among 
Article 8 other characteristics, environmental or social characteristics, 
Article 6 covers funds which do not consider sustainability 
42 or a combination of those characteristics, provided that the 
risks or adverse effects at the core of the investment decision- %
companies in which the investments are made follow good 
making process, as they are not part of the strategy 
governance practices.”
for the Fund. However, the manager considers minimum  Article 6
sustainability safeguards across its funds taking  53
%
into consideration that Tikehau Capital Group, the manager’s 
parent company, is committed to investing responsibly,  Article 9, also known as ‘products targeting sustainable 
Article 9
and believes that the effective integration of certain  investments’, covers products targeting bespoke sustainable 
5
ESG criteria is key in achieving a long-term sustainable  % investments and applies “where a financial product has 
performance.  sustainable investment as its objective” and an index has been 
designated as a reference benchmark where possible
* Based on AUM at June 30, 2021 and expected toward the year end 2021, once legal documentation and information letters to investors have been updated. 

IV. FOCUS ON CLIMATE APPROACH
In 2021, Tikehau Capital launched its Climate Action centre, a platform aiming at defining the Group’s climate
strategy and actioning it through the launch of investment vehicles with a twofold objective: to deliver superior market
financial returns and to help combat the climate emergency by participating in the reduction of the carbon footprint of
our economy. The Climate Action centre is also an innovation platform that contributes to the development of
methodologies, training and tools to empower the Group’s employees to take action and consider climate in
investment decisions across all investment vehicles. It already includes 33 people across the organisation from
Pierre Abadie
investmentprofessionalstosenioradvisorsandoperatingpartnersintheTikehauCapitalecosystem.
Head of Climate
Private Equity Energy  Impact Lending Strategy
Pierre  Nathalia  Transition and 
Abadie Millan Decarbonisation Strategies
Group Climate director ESG
Lead for Private Equity & Infrastructure
Laure  Ongoing 
Villepelet recruitment
Head of ESG & CSR ESG
Lead for Private Debt
Jean-Marc  Ivan 
Gales Marten
Miriam  Andrew 
Maes Pidden
Climate Impact Credit  Green Assets Strategy 
Vincent  Joost 
Strategy under development
Favier Van Meerbeeck
IV. FOCUS ON CLIMATE APPROACH
Conscious of its critical role in the energy and ecological transition, Tikehau Capital is addressing climate change
holistically. The Group joined the Net Zero Asset Managers (NZAM) global initiative accredited by the United Nations
Framework Convention on Climate Change's (UNFCCC) "Race to Zero" campaign, thus joining the largest global alliance
ofcredibleclimatecommitments.Assuch,theGroupiscommittedtosettingintermediatetargetstowardscarbonneutrality.
IV. FOCUS ON CLIMATE APPROACH
REAL ASSETS
CAPITAL MARKETS 
PRIVATE EQUITY PRIVATE DEBT
STRATEGIES
REAL ESTATE  INFRASTRUCTURE
Modelling of carbon 
Full carbon footprint 
footprint for main funds 
with portfolio companies  Modelling of carbon  Modelling of carbon  Modelling of carbon 
incl. direct lending, 
in flagship funds*;  footprint for main funds footprint for IREIT  footprint for main funds
corporate lending 
modelling for other funds 
and CLO vehicles
WACI (Scope 1 & 2):
Intensity per sqm  Intensity per sqm 
WACI (Scope 1, 2 & 3): WACI (Scope 1, 2 & 3):
(Scope 1 & 2): (Scope 1 & 2):
WACI (Scope 1, 2 & 3):
*Excl. Ace Capital Partners
Climate-related questions  Climate-related questions  Physical risk assessment 
Climate-related questions  Physical risk 
in ESG pre-investment tool;  in ESG pre-investment tool;  for flagship funds 
in ESG pre-investment  assessment for flagship 
Physical & Transition risk  Physical & Transition risk  in 2021 (incl. IREIT 
tool funds in 2021
for flagship funds in 2020 for flagship funds in 2020 and Sofidy)
ERM (Full carbon footprint  Trucost S&P Global, 
for Tikehau IM); Trucost  TALOEN of the French 
Trucost S&P Global  Trucost S&P Global  Trucost S&P Global
S&P Global (Modelling for  Green Building 
Ace and Tactical strategies) Observatory for Sofidy 

V. FOCUS ON IMPACT APPROACH
Our mission is to scale the shift toward a more sustainable economy…
…and to achieve an at-market return: both financial and extra-financial 
impact
Through our knowledge and network, we are committed to engaging 
with portfolio companies to scale up impact & ESG:
i. in-house Energy Transition teams and expertise of specialised 
consultants used where deemed necessary
ii. in-house ESG team support for engagement programs
iii.monitoring of ESG/Climate progress on a periodic basis
We define impact priorities at Strategy level through a Theory 
of Change. We track progress against objectives at Strategy 
and company level during the investment life cycle
Nathalia Millan
ESG Lead for Private Equity 
& Infrastructure 
Tikehau Capital invests alongside investors and where possible, 
defines mechanisms to align management or performance fees 
to the achievement of impact commitments
We appoint a third-party expert or auditors to ensure/assess 
the quality of our impact approach & impact reporting
V. FOCUS ON IMPACT APPROACH
Addressing climate and social issues 
while generating growth and profitability
T2 ENERGY TRANSITION
S.YTIC (SUSTAINABLE CITY)
Private Equity 
Real Assets –Sofidy
Launch: December 2018
Launch: March 2018
Closing: >€1bn
Managing and promoting sustainable urban development 
Tackling the climate emergency by focusing on companies 
by supporting companies operating in: 
operating in:
•vertical development of large cities
•clean power generation
•urban renewal
•low-carbon transport
•infrastructure management
•improving energy efficiency, electricity storage and digitalisation
•waste processing
•digital transformation
IMPACT LENDING STRATEGY
Private Debt 
INVESTING IN HEALTH 
Launch: December 2020
Enabling SMEs and intermediate-sized companies to accelerate  AND RESEARCH
their transitions and effectively contribute to a more inclusive 
Private Equity 
and sustainable economy: 
Supporting companies that:
•broadening their offer of sustainable goods and services
•contribute to advances in healthcare–prevention, 
•improving operational management (human capital, 
diagnosis and monitoring
supply chain, etc.)
•enable the life sciences industry to more quickly develop 
sustainable and cost-effective therapies
TIKEHAU IMPACT CREDIT
Capital Markets Strategies 
Launch: July 2021 CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY
Fostering the transition toward a net zero carbon economy
Private Equity –Ace Capital Partners
by supporting companies from a wide array of sectors that:
•contribute to reducing CO emissions and/or other highly material  4 priority themes central  Launch: June 2019
2
environmental externalities Supporting young companies offering innovative digital 
•have made advanced commitments towards climate change to the post-Covid recovery security technologies, and supporting their acquisition 
•are involved in solutions for the transition through their financing or  strategy, both in France and abroad.
as a key part of their business

VI. SUSTAINABILITY INVESTING ACROSS ACTIVITIES
The development of climate and impact vehicles, namely the T2 Energy Transition fund, irrigates the ESG
and climate strategy across the PE portfolio. In particular in 2021, this is demonstrated by the definition
of the Tikehau PE Sustainability Must-haves, including the definition and discussion of sustainability
roadmapsaswellasassessingthecarbonfootprintofalltheportfoliocompaniesinflagshipfunds.
of the portfolio companies 
in Tikehau IM flagship funds
at the end of 2020 covered 
by a carbon footprint 
ESG-by- • Applying the  • Assessing ESG  • Including ESG  • Addressing an ESG  • Communicating ESG 
design Group’s ESG  risks and  clause in  questionnaire on an annual  performance to future 
exclusion criteria  opportunities  Shareholder  basis investors
and ESG  through a  agreements
• Reporting to management, 
watchlist proprietary tool
• Identifying ESG  investors and institutions
• Conducting a  management 
• Defining sustainability 
detailed ESG  strategy 
roadmaps with portfolio 
Due Diligence
companies
• Assessing carbon footprint 
of 100% of portfolio  Emmanuel Laillier
companies in flagship funds
Head of Private Equity
• Annual discussion of ESG 
topics at Board level
Energy  • Reinforcing  • Including  • Including climate  • Assessing induced and  • Communicating impact 
Transition  exclusion list – a “Why T2”  considerations  avoided carbon emissions  results to future 
exclusion  section in the  in the BP  of 100% of portfolio  investors
impact 
of production  Investment  definition companies in the 12 months 
strategy
of Oil & Gas Committee  following investment
Memo
• Assessing  • Including a CO emission 
2
thealignment  reduction plan within 
with the Fund’s  Sustainability Roadmaps
Theory of 
• Publicly disclosing impact 
Change
results Guillaume Benhamou
CEO of Ace Capital Partners
VI. SUSTAINABILITY INVESTING ACROSS ACTIVITIES
Ourreportingcampaignserves2mainobjectives:
1. ToengagewithourportfoliocompaniesonESGtopicsandofferdedicatedtoolsandsupport.Forexample,forthe2020reportingcampaign,weincludedquestionsrelating
tobiodiversity.
2. ToassessandcommunicateonESGperformanceatafundlevel.
Familiarise the investment team with the  Promote transparent, accountable  Provide capital to growing companies  Offer tools and tailored support to help 
SDG framework, so they can  and inclusive business models  committed to sustainable projects that  companies measure their environmental 
systematically integrate SDG  in collaboration with the portfolio company  contribute to employment and decent  footprint and mitigate negative impacts, in 
considerations into their investment  management, fostering best practices  working conditions. partnership with leading service providers.
approach. in relation to governing bodies, 
business ethics and CSR 
policies.
OUR PORTFOLIO COMPANIES OUR PORTFOLIO COMPANIES OUR PORTFOLIO COMPANIES OUR PORTFOLIO COMPANIES
Tikehau IM portfolio companies  67%of portfolio companies with at least  41 jobs created (260jobs excluding  56%of portfolio companies conducted 
products & service SDG exposure: one independent member on the Board companies in the aerospace sector a carbon footprint and identified 
58% companies with positive exposure:  affected by the economic crisis) initiatives to reduce CO emissions
2
37%to SDG 7 (renewable energy &  63%of portfolio companies with at least 
26%of women among the employees in  Including 100% in T2 Energy 
energy efficiency) one women on Executive Committee
the portfolio Transition and Tikehau Growth Equity II 
11%to SDG 9 (low carbon mobility & 
retrofit of infrastructure) 70%of portfolio companies with a CSR  67% of the portfolio companies with a  funds
5% to SDG 11 (affordable housing) policy gender pay gap assessment 15%of companies deploying actions to 
5% to SDG 3 (access to sport) reduce the impact on biodiversity
We collected more than 60 datapoints from each portfolio company that responded on a declarative and unaudited basis. 27 companies contributed to the reporting campaign 
including 20 Companies from Tikehau IM portfolio and 7 from Ace Capital Partners’ portfolio. More details on the reporting campaign are available for investors upon request.
VI. SUSTAINABILITY INVESTING ACROSS ACTIVITIES
Hélène Henry-Prince
Executive Director -Private Equity
TARGET
Sustainability fully 
integrated in the 
(defined by the company or at the initiative  business model
of the investment team in the 12 months  Definition of a purpose 
following the acquisition) 
and a CSR roadmap 
with timeframe 
and objectives
CSR policy 
definition and 
communication
Scattered actions
on the CSR pillars
VI. SUSTAINABILITY INVESTING ACROSS ACTIVITIES
Pascal Nadobny
Chairman & CEO ADDEV Materials
Over the past years, ADDEV Materials has been formalising its sustainability policy. In
2020, the Group went a step further by defining its purpose and placing it at the centre
of its business model. This purpose was also used to reframe and scale up the
Company’s CSR strategy,includingquantitativeandtime-framedobjectives:
ADDEV Materials is a designer and converter of customised
value-added solutions for industrial performance. Across the
transformation of high-performance materials, the company
focuses on the conversion of technical films, adhesive
solutions and customised packaging of adhesives and
chemicals.ThegroupisheadquarteredinFranceandserving
customers worldwide across a variety of sectors, including
aerospace and defence, power, automotive, railway,
construction,industry, healthcareandhygiene.
Tikehau Capital accompanies ADDEV Materials by providing tools and methodologies to measure and pilot impact across the value chain. For
example in 2020, the Group provided support in the assessment of the Scope 3 carbon emissions. It allowed to identify that more than 85% of the
CO emissionscamefromthesupply chainand itcontributedtotheidentificationofeco-designprojects.
2
Access to ADDEV Materials carbon footprint infographics 
VI. SUSTAINABILITY INVESTING ACROSS ACTIVITIES
We structure, finance, and implement a variety of deals focusing on senior debt, stretched senior, unitranche
financing,mezzaninedebtandpreferredequity.
In 2020, we started introducing ESG ratchets, a marginal adjustment of the interest rate based on the
achievement of pre-defined ESG targets in the credit documentation. We typically negotiate between three
and five ESG criteria and related ambitious targets with the companyand/or equity sponsor. This mechanism
isacorecomponentofourImpactLendingfundandithasfurtherpotentialtodevelopasastandard.
Deal including an ESG ratchet in 
direct lending in August 2020 
ESG-by- •Applying the Group’s  •Assessing ESG risks  •Presenting the company’s  •Monitoring ESG performance 
design ESG exclusion criteria  and opportunities using  ESG profile to investment  at least on an annual basis
and ESG watchlist our proprietary tools  committee •Reporting non-financial 
•Ad hoc consultation  •Including a standard ESG  information
of the ESG Committee  clause in the legal  •Providing tailored ad-hoc
for grey cases documentation (ESG  support to portfolio companies
information undertakings)
•Entering into dialogue with 
investment target
Sustainable  •Identifying an impact roadmap  •Monitoring the achievement 
lending  with the investment target of impact metrics at least on an 
through ESG  •Negotiating and agreeing on  annual basis
ratchets impact targets / ESG ratchet  •Providing tailored ad-hoc support 
mechanism to portfolio companies on ESG & 
impact topics
Impact  •Applying enhanced  •Quantifying the investee’s  •Impact board reviews  •Reporting on the fund’s impact 
Lending  exclusion criteria potential contribution  the impact investment thesis  performance at least annually
Strategy •Applying enhanced  to the fund’s impact  and “do no significant harm”  •Independent audit procedures 
screening criteria:  objectives (“theory of  criteria Cécile Mayer-Lévi 
borrower’s commitment to  change”) Head of Private Debt
expand its sustainable 
offering and/or improve 
resource management
VI. SUSTAINABILITY INVESTING ACROSS ACTIVITIES
Ourreportingcampaignserves2mainobjectives:
1. Toengagewithour portfolio companies onESG topics andoffer dedicated tools andsupport.For example,for the2020reportingcampaign, weincludedquestionsrelating
tobiodiversitytoenhancetheCompany’s awarenessonthistopic.
2. ToassessandcommunicateonESGperformanceatafundlevel.
Familiarise the investment team  Promote transparent, accountable and  Provide capital to growing companies  Offer tools and tailored support to help 
with the SDG framework, so they  inclusive business models in collaboration  committed to sustainable projects that  companies measure their environmental 
can systematically integrate SDG  with the portfolio company management,  contribute to employment and decent  footprint and mitigate negative impacts, in 
considerations into their investment  fostering best practices in relation to  working conditions. partnership with leading service providers.
approach. governing bodies, business ethics and 
CSR policies.
OUR PORTFOLIO COMPANIES OUR PORTFOLIO COMPANIES OUR PORTFOLIO COMPANIES OUR PORTFOLIO COMPANIES
19% of companies positively exposed to  53%of portfolio companies with at least  1,615jobs created in the portfolio  35%of portfolio companies conducted 
the SDGs (in sectors such as  one independent member on the Board companies in 2020 a carbon footprint and identified 
healthcare, telecommunications,  initiatives to reduce CO emissions
2
environmental services and clean  69%of portfolio companies with at least  25%of women among the employees 
energy) one women on Executive Committee in the portfolio 31%of portfolio companies deploying 
actions to reduce the impact on 
20% of companies aligned to the SDGs  70% of portfolio companies with a CSR  58% of the portfolio companies with  biodiversity
(contributing indirectly or through a small  policy a gender pay gap assessment
share of revenues to the SDGs)
We collected more than 60 datapoints from each portfolio company that responded on a declarative and unaudited basis. 55 companies contributed to the reporting exercise 
on a voluntary basis. More details on the reporting campaign are available for investors upon request.
VI. SUSTAINABILITY INVESTING ACROSS ACTIVITIES
• Supplier ’s certifications
Based in Devon (UK), Forthglade is a leading provider 
• Recyclable packaging 
of high quality natural wet and dry dog food addressing  August-2020 Pet Food
• Employee training
the ‘premium’ segment in the UK. 
• Product quality
• Gender equality
Talan is an IT services company focused on operations 
• Employee training
and consulting. The group employs over 2,200 FTEs  Nov-2020 IT services
• Employee satisfaction
and is headquartered in Paris.
• Leading CSR certification (Bcorp, ISO 26 000)
Xebia is a digital transformation consulting company. 
The group focuses on value-added projects such  Criteria being negotiated as of the publication 
Nov-2020 IT services
as applications, development processes, application  date of this report
deployment and data management.
Eureden is a leading French agricultural cooperative,  • Alternative solutions to crop protection products
vertically integrated across the value chain and structured 
Dec-2020 Agriculture • Renewable energy
around six operating branches (agriculture, long life, 
eggs, frozen food, meat and green distribution).  • Reducing accidents at work
Odigo is a European leader in cloud-based native  • Gender equality
software solutions that interconnect end-customers, 
Dec-2020 Software  • Employee training
contact centresand CRMs to facilitate information flow 
and query processing. • Client satisfaction
Provider of fresh and frozen seafood. The company 
• Renewable energy
[Undisclosed] is present across the entire value chain, from fishing  Dec-2020 Seafood
• Recycled content in packaging 
and in-house processing to final commercialization. 
Santiane is a French B2B and B2C digital insurance 
broker mainly specialised in the conception  Criteria being negotiated as of the publication 
Dec-2020 Insurance
and distribution of individual health & protection  date of this report
insurance contracts.
VI. SUSTAINABILITY INVESTING ACROSS ACTIVITIES
HowdoweintegrateESGinourCLOs?
Foreachinvestment,ourresearchandinvestmentteams:
1. Perform in-depth due diligence focusing on a constant interchange between their top-down view (a directional market analysis leading to sector screening) and their
bottom-upview(afundamentalanalysis ofeachcompanyleadingtoaselectionofthesecuritiestobeheld).
2. ScorenewissuersusingaproprietarymodelbroadlyinlinewithELFA(EuropeanLeveragedFinanceAssociation)ESGFactSheet.
3. MandateTrucosttoperformacarbonfootprintanalysis onanannualbasis.
ESG scores vs Governance score
The best performing issuers are three companies
70%
operating in sectors with positive externalities. ERM
is a leading global provider of environmental, health,
safety, risk, and social consulting services. UPC is
60%
Switzerland’s leading telecommunications provider
focusedonsafeuseofdigitalmediaandenergyefficiency.
Micro Focus is a diverse enterprise software provider
50%
headquartered in the UK with good ESG disclosures and
processes.
40%
30%
20% The bottom performers appear in sectors facing higher
ESG risks: Ineos Industries in the chemicals sector and
Gamenet in the gambling industry. At end of 2020,
10% Thyssenkrupp Elevator faced private enforcement claims
inrelationtoitsparticipationinanelevatorcartel.
0%
0% 20% 40% 60% 80%
Source: Tikehau Capital research as of 31/12/2020 
VI. SUSTAINABILITY INVESTING ACROSS ACTIVITIES
Our experienced Capital Markets Strategies team manages open-ended funds in the equity and fixed income
markets. On top of our internal ESG integration approach, we are increasingly setting ESG quantitative
targetsintheinvestmentobjectivesofourfunds.
Since March 2021, we target a 20% outperformance in terms of weighted average carbon intensity
(tCO permillionofrevenuesinvested)forthemainportfolios*.
2
Target carbon intensity 
reduction for main 
open-ended funds
ESG-by- •Applying the Group’s  •Assessing ESG risks  •Including the company’s  •Monitoring ESG performance 
design ESG exclusion criteria  and opportunities using  ESG profile in investment  at least on an annual basis
and ESG watchlist our proprietary tools  recommendations •Reporting non-financial 
•Ad hoc consultation  information
of the ESG Committee 
for grey cases
TowardNet  •Applying enhanced exclusion  •Assessing the investee’s  •Contacting the investment  •Monitoring the achievement 
ZeroCarbon  criteria contribution to the fund’s  target to discuss  of impact metrics
Impact •Applying enhanced  impact objectives (“theory  its sustainability roadmap •Providing tailored ad-hoc 
Strategy screening criteria: borrower’s  of change”) support to portfolio 
potential to contribute  •ESG team reviews  companies on impact topics
to a low carbon economy  the impact investment thesis  •Reporting on the fund’s 
(green and sustainability  and “do no significant harm”  impact performance
linked bonds, signatory  criteria 
•Independent audit 
of net zero schemes such 
procedures 
as Sciences Based Target 
initiative, other eligible  Raphael Thuin
issuers)
Head of Capital Markets Strategies
* Carbon intensity target on scope 1 and 2 initially and scope 3 when supporting information becomes available.
VI. SUSTAINABILITY INVESTING ACROSS ACTIVITIES
Revenues:  $595mn Revenues:  $7.1bn Revenues:  €2.7bn
EBITDA:  $431mn EBITDA:  $1.1bn EBITDA:  €650mn
Net leverage: 9.7x Net leverage: 5.0x Net leverage: 8.9x
Yield to maturity: 4.3% Yield to worst: 3.5% Yield to maturity: 6.6%
Maturity:  08/23  Maturity:  06/27 Maturity:  05/26
Withanetinstalledcapacityof7GW across15Statesin Ardagh is a leading packaging company focusing Upfield produces a wide range of plant-based spreads,
India, Greenko is specialised in generation and on infinitely recyclable materials (glass and metal). butter, and oils. Opting for plant-based food helps save
distribution of renewable energy. Greenko’s portfolio The company is a leader in the transition toward significantcarbonemissionslinkedtolivestock.
includes solar, wind, hydropower, natural gas, and acircularandclimateneutralglassindustry.
Giventhelowercarbonfootprintofplant-basedproducts
biomassassets.
The company is building a ‘Furnace for the Future’ and Upfield’s commitment to eliminate plastic from its
The net proceeds of Greenko’s Green Bond are in Obernkirchen, Germany. This furnace will run packaging by 2025, the company is an issuer with
allocatedtowardsrefinancingwindandsolarprojects. on renewable energy and use high amount of recycled potentialtoenterthe‘pureplayer’bucket
glass in all glass colours. Other glass companies will
As a company that contributes directly to the energy
co-finance the project, and in return, will receive all the
transition, Greenko is highly relevant to the construction
necessaryinformationtorunsimilarplants.
ofthefund.
→ → →
Note: In portfolio as of 31 August 2021
VI. SUSTAINABILITY INVESTING ACROSS ACTIVITIES
Investing in all real estate asset categories (office, retail, residential, logistics, industrial, healthcare
andhospitality),eitherexistingortoberedevelopedmainlyinCore/Core+andValueAddedStrategies.
Frédéric Jariel
Co-head of Real Estate activity
Given the increasingly interconnected nature of ESG and financial criteria, this also means investments that
areenergyefficientandhaveapositiveenvironmentalimpact.
ESG-by- •Applying Group’s ESG  •Assessing ESG risks  •Where possible, engage  •Reporting non-financial 
design exclusion criteria and  and opportunities using  with tenants on eco gestures  information
ESG watchlist our proprietary tools  (e.g. sustainability clause in 
standard lease agreements, 
•Ad hoc consultation  •Including the asset’s ESG 
sharing energy consumption 
of the ESG Committee  profile in the investment 
data, guide of eco-friendly 
for grey cases committee memorandums
gestures)
•Where relevant, engage  •Monitoring ESG performance 
with property managers  at least on an annual basis 
to define ESG targets  (incl. carbon footprint and physical  Jérôme Grumler
risks analysis where possible) Deputy CEO, Sofidy
VI. SUSTAINABILITY INVESTING ACROSS ACTIVITIES
Launched in 2018, TREO is the first pan-European discretionary real estate fund dedicated to a value-added strategy. The principle is to acquire assets
with the potential to be repositioned on their market, rotated or refurbished to increase their rental yield and, ultimately, their value. To achieve this,
TREO'sinvestmentteamsdeployanassetanduseconversionstrategy.
Conversion
Reconvert old & inefficient  140k m² new social housing 
69
% buildings to new & energy  expected on ongoing 
Hotel  efficient buildings with  residential reconversion 
sector highest environmental  projects
4
% standard –UK and Italian 
Change of use of the existing 
redevelopments, Charenton
building to better fit the need 
Value add Creation of density,  of local communities and 
13 urbanisation project which  improve residents’ wellbeing
%
reduces transportation 
Residential Monitor the tenancy situation 
pollution
14 and provide rent-free support 
%
All deals submitted to investment 
Collaboration with Green  to retail tenants to weather 
committee with an ESG profile
Yellow on EDF portfolio  the health crisis
providing electrical charging  Dialogue-engagement actions 
station with property managers and tenants 
(where possible)
Create residential scheme 
on former gas plants Monitor the ESG performance 
of assets under management 
on an annual basis
VI. SUSTAINABILITY INVESTING ACROSS ACTIVITIES
E+ C-minimum efficiency level per plot 20k sqm of social housing (c.400 homes) Allow for a nontoxic quality of air 
• 20% less carbon emission per inhabitant 
Wood structure schemes (bridge, school, offices) Create a dynamic community and an attractive 
environment making sense to its users  Improve the inhabitant’s awareness of the natural 
Hot and cold system (geothermal energy)
environment 
Create welcoming spaces to promote meetings 
25k sqm of newly created green areas through 
across cultures, social backgrounds and lifestyles Establish prerequisites to increase the importance 
replanting incl. 60% greening on private plots 
of soft mobilities 
22% target biodiversity coefficient  • 58% share of use of public transport
and ≥70% plants must be native • 4,000 bike spaces created 
≥90% overall recycling rate during construction
Wooded bridge over 200 metres Commercial street 4,000 bike spaces
VI. SUSTAINABILITY INVESTING ACROSS ACTIVITIES
Sofidyhasbeendesigninganddevelopinginvestmentandsavingsproducts-FrenchREITs(SCPI,OPCI),listedpropertycompanies(SIIC),non-tradingcompanies,realestateUCITS,dedicated
funds–since1987,focusingmainlyoncommercialandofficeproperty.AsoftheendofDec.2020,Sofidyhad€6.7billionundermanagementacrossapropertyportfoliocomprisingmorethan
2,000assets.
Sofidy is a member of leading professional associations including Aspim (Association Française des Sociétés de PlAcement Immobilier), the French association for real estate investment
companies) and OID (Observatoire de l’immobilier durable or the French Green Building Observatory) which promote sustainable development in the real estate industry. Sofidy uses the OID
TALOENtooltoassesstheexposureofitsportfoliotoheatwaves,drought,riverfloodandsealevelrise.
Number of French assets* at risk 
in High Climate Change Scenario over 2020-2100
(RCP 8.5: warming in excess of 4°C by 2100)
Low  Medium  High 
Climate hazard  Analysis  risk risk risk
indicator Metric <= 2 3 >= 4
River basin 
823 641 615
River Flood flood 
/2,079 /2,079 /2,079
risk index
Heatwave  411 1,268 400
Heatwave
days /2,079 /2,079 /2,079
Drought  Length of  965 447 667
and wildfire drought /2,079 /2,079 /2,079
Coastal  19
Sea Level  2,058 2
inundation  /2,079
Rise /2,079 /2,079
risk index
1 Source: OID, TALOEN Bat-ADAPT Climate risk base as of August 2021
*The analysis is available for 2,079 French assets and the 258 remaining assets located outside 
2
France will be covered at a later stage
3
4
5
VI. SUSTAINABILITY INVESTING ACROSS ACTIVITIES
IREIT Global, a listed REIT based in Singapore is managed by IREIT Global Group Pte Ltd, jointly owned by Tikehau Capital and City Developments Limited. As of 31 December 2020,
the9realestateassetsheldbyIREITGlobalwerevaluedat€0.7billion,orapproximately3%ofTikehauCapital’sAuMs.
TikehauCapitalhasmandatedS&PTrucosttoperformacarbonfootprintandclimate-relatedphysicalriskassessmentoftheIREITportfolioasattheendof2020.Thehighestphysicalrisksto
theREITportfolioarewaterstressandriverflood.Waterstressismeasuredastheprojectedfutureratioofwaterwithdrawalstototalrenewablewatersupplyinagivenareaortheprobabilityof
drought estimated on the basis of the Standardized Precipitation Evapotranspiration Index(SPEI). The SPEI measuresthe "climate water balance",i.e. the difference between precipitationand
evapotranspiration, indicatingareas with increasedor reduced riskofdrought. Dataisavailableata resolutionof100km2 to 200km2.On thescale,100 represents maximum waterstressand1
representssufficientwaterresources.
Number of assets at risk 
in a 2030 High Climate Change Scenario 
(RCP 8.5: warming in excess of 4°C by 2100)
Low  Medium  High 
Climate hazard  Analysis 
risk risk risk
indicator Metric
<=40 <40-<=60 >60
Water 
Water 
stress  3/9 3/9 3/9
Stress
index
River basin 
River Flood flood  8/9 - 1/9
risk index
Heatwave 
Heatwave 9/9 - -
days
Coldwave 
Coldwave 9/9 - -
days
Burnt 
Wildfire NA NA NA
Area
Coastal 
Sea Level 
inundation  9/9 - -
Rise
risk index
Source: S&P Trucost
VI. SUSTAINABILITY INVESTING ACROSS ACTIVITIES
The Infrastructure asset class is well suited for ESG and impact across investment and asset management.
At Star America we invest mostly in greenfield projects and therefore we contribute to additionality in the
SDG 9, Infrastructure and Industrialization. Nevertheless, we are conscious of the ESG stakes in the
construction andoperationofour projectsand thiswhywehave adopted an enhancedESGapproachacross
ourportfolio.
of investments with an ESG 
profile in the Final Investment 
Committee Memorandum 
in 2020
ESG-by-design • Assessing gating  • Conducting a detailed  • Including ESG clause  • Addressing an ESG 
issues and including  ESG Due Diligence in Operating Agreements  questionnaire on an 
results in the introductory  • Reviewing  at the SPV level where  annual basis (update 
IC Memorandum Environmental Impact  possible expected in 2021)
• Evaluating high-level  Studies  • Reporting to 
ESG risk profiles • Completing KYC  management, investors 
questionnaire for  and institutions
potential project partners
• Including full ESG 
assessment in the Final 
Investment Committee 
Memorandum
Sustainable  • Applying an enhanced  • Systematically engaging  • Including the  • Introducing ESG action 
infrastructure  exclusion list, with gating  with local communities  Responsible Contractor  plans with strategic 
development activities such as Oil  and public authorities Policy in the negotiation partners, including equity 
(SDG 9) & Gas Exploration and/or  • Discussing with equity  partners, main 
Development, as well  partners and prime  contractors and 
as Private Prison  contractors to identify  subcontractors
Operations ESG risks and value- • Evaluating impact across  Christophe Petit
creation opportunities  the projects (to be  President, Star America Infrastructure 
across the project  implemented) where  Partners.
lifecycle possible and relevant
VI. SUSTAINABILITY INVESTING ACROSS ACTIVITIES
TikehauCapital’sinfrastructure activityis carried out through funds,whicharemanagedbyStar America InfrastructurePartners,anindependent American assetmanagement companyactive
in the development and management of medium-sized infrastructure projects in North America, acquired by the Group in July 2020. Star America Infrastructure Partners operates in particular
through public-privatepartnerships in four asset categories:transport,social infrastructure, environment and communication. At December 2020,theportfolio amounted to€559 million of AuM
across15assetslocatedinNorthAmerica.
TikehauCapitalhasmandatedS&PTrucosttoperformacarbonfootprintandclimate-relatedphysicalrisksofStarAmerica’sportfolioatyear-end.Withintheinvestmentportfolio,StarAmerica
supportsCathcartRail,basedinColumbusOhio,afreightrailplatformfocusedonrailserviceswith60locationsin22states.Theassessmentidentifiesthatthemostmaterialphysicalrisksto
theportfolioarerelatedtowaterstress(3assetsexposedtohighrisks),coldwaves(11assetsexposedtomediumrisks)andwildfire(1assetatmediumrisk).
Acrossthewestcoast,firesarealreadybecomingmorefrequentandextensive,threateningthelivesandlivelihoods
ofresidents.Themapbelowshowswildfirerisks,evaluatedbyTrucostastherisksofwildfireoccurrencebylocation
Number of assets at risk 
basedonmodelledareaofburntvegetation.
in a 2030 High Climate Change Scenario 
(RCP 8.5: warming in excess of 4°C by 2100)
Climate hazard  Analysis  Low  Medium  High 
indicator Metric risk risk risk
Trucost  Trucost  Trucost 
score  score  score 
<=40 <40-<=60 >60
Water 
Water 
stress  3/15 9/15 3/15
Stress
index
Heatwave 
Heatwave 15/15 - -
days
Coldwave 
Cold wave 5/15 10/15 0
days
Burnt 
Wildfire 14/15 1/15 -
Area
Star America projects 
Sea Level  Inundation 
Cathcart Rail main retail shops 15/15 - -
Rise depth
Source: S&P Trucost
VI. SUSTAINABILITY INVESTING ACROSS ACTIVITIES
The project involves a 15-year concession agreement to design, build, finance,
operate, and maintain the improvements on existing freeway and tunnel lighting
systems in the Detroit Metro Region. The project is the first Public-Private
Partnership (P3) in the country for a freeway lighting asset and the first P3 for
theStateofMichigan.
Mark Melson
Chief Investment Officer –Star America
Located in the Macomb, Oakland, and Wayne counties the freeway  Board Member –Freeway Lighting Partners
lighting system consists of approximately 15,000 fixtures and the 
underlying infrastructure. Prior to the project, the majority of the system’s 
fixtures were inefficient high-pressure sodium or metal halide. 
Starting in August 2015, the system was upgraded and the outdated 
lights were replaced with energy-efficient LED technology, 
with 100% of lights completed in just 2 years.
Since the start of operations in August 2017, the project has met 
and exceeded the client’s energy performance goals by achieving energy 
savings of more than 78 million kilowatt-hours through December 
31, 2020. In 2020 alone, the system achieved 
over 23 million kilowatt-hours in energy savings, which 
is the equivalent of over $1.2 million in energy cost savings 
for the client.
Beyond energy savings, the improved system is helping increase 
highway safety conditions for the travelling public through increased 
visibility, reduced outages, and improved light quality.
VI. SUSTAINABILITY INVESTING ACROSS ACTIVITIES
Note: Amsterdam data centre financing was completed in July 2021. 

Thefollowingtablecross-referencesinformationrelatingtoGlobalReportingInitiative(“GRI”)Standardswithinformationpublishedinthisreport(SustainabilityReport
2020abbreviated as “2020 SR”), as well as in the Tikehau Capital 2020Universal Registration Document (“2020 URD”) and the Group’s website. Material topics were
identifiedusingourmaterialityassessmentprocess(see2020URDp.94and189).AlltopicsidentifiedpertaindirectlytoTikehauCapitalSCAandouraffiliates.
GRI DISCLOSURE NUMBER DESCRIPTION REFERENCE  COMMENT
GENERAL DISCLOSURES
ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE
102-1 Name of the organisation 2020 SR p.02 Tikehau Capital SCA
2020 URDp.02
102-2 Activities, brands, products and  2020 SR p.04, 20, 21
services 2020 URDp.04-05,10-11,21,26-27,
102-3  Location of headquarters 2020 URDback cover
102-4 Location of operations 2020 URDp.33  Please see: https://www.tikehaucapital.com/en/our-group/our-offices
102-5 Ownership and legal form 2020 URDp.111,134, 332-337  Please see: https://www.tikehaucapital.com/en/site-services/legal-notices
102-6 Markets served 2020 URD p.04
102-7 Scale of the organisation 2020 URDp.04,06-07
102-8 Information on employees  2020 URDp.04,07,209-215
and other workers
102-9 Supply chain 2020 URDp.215  A responsible purchasing policy is key to mitigate a large number of non-compliance risks, reputational risks and supply 
Group Responsible Purchasing Charter chain risks. Promoting such policies is key, specially for our portfolio companies operating in industries such as 
manufacturing, agri-food, textile or pharmaceuticals, with an internal requirement level similar to that of its investments, the
Group wishes to adopt a stringent policy based on high standards.
102-10 Significant changes to the  - No significant changes took place during the reporting period.
organisation and its supply chain
102-11 Precautionary Principle  2020 URDp.94-130 
or approach
102-12 External initiatives 2020 SRp.14, 15, 17 Tikehau Capital has launched partnerships to encourage the recruitment of new employees. Through the TKO University 
2020 URDp.211,215-217 Coverage Project, Tikehau Capital employees regularly present the Group's approach at leading universities such as 
EDHEC or HEC in France. Through its policy of partnership and philanthropy, the Group proactively supports initiatives and 
projects that reflect its values or pressing issues. A dedicated philanthropy working group has identified youth and social 
entrepreneurship as being priority issues, and seeks to build partnerships between Tikehau Capital and organisations 
working in this area. Despite the constraints posed by the Covid-19 pandemic, the Group continued its partnership and 
sponsorship actions in 2020.
102-13 Membership of associations 2020 URDp.206 Industry associations: 
• AFEP (Association française des entreprises privées / French Association of Large Companies) 
• AFG (Association Française de la Gestion financière / French Asset Management Association) 
• AIMA (Alternative Investment Management Association) 
• ELFA (European Leveraged Finance Association) 
• France Invest (Leading association of French private investors)
• NZAM (Net Zero Asset Managers initiative) 
• OPPEF (One Planet Private Equity Funds) under the One Planet Summit umbrella
• UN PRI (Principles for Responsible Investment)
STRATEGY
102-14 Statement from senior  2020 SRp.05
decision-maker 2020 URDp.03
GRI DISCLOSURE NUMBER DESCRIPTION REFERENCE  COMMENT
ETHICS AND INTEGRITY
102-16  Values, principles, standards and  2020 URD p.186, 190, 206
norms of behavior
GOVERNANCE
102-18 Governance structure 2020 URD p.134-151,177-178 The Supervisory Board comprises 50% independent members and 40% women.
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
102-40 List of stakeholder groups The groups stakeholders comprise employees, investors clients (shareholders, fund investors and potential investors), 
investee companies, suppliers, communities, regulatory bodies as well as financial analysts, rating agencies, NGOs and 
media.
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 2020 URD p.215 Tikehau Capital adheres to the principles laid down in the fundamental conventions of the International LabourOrganisation
("ILO") concerning (i) respect for the freedom of association and right to collective bargaining, (ii) the elimination of 
discrimination in respect of employment and occupation, (iii) the elimination of forced and compulsory labour, and (iv) the 
effective abolition of child labour. Tikehau Capital facilitates the exercise of freedom of association and collective 
bargaining. The Group promotes social dialogue notably through Social and Economic Councils (“ComitéSocial et 
Economique” or “CSE”) in place at three of its most significant French affiliates. Moreover, circa 50% of the Group 
employees are covered by collective agreements in France, Italy and Spain.
102-42 Identifying and selecting  2020 URD p.189 The first step of Tikehau Capital ESG materiality matrix assessment was to identify key stakeholders.
stakeholders
102-43 Approach to stakeholder  2020 URD p.205-206 The Company intends to meet a high level of transparency concerning its own activities and regularly communicates to its 
engagement stakeholders. Tikehau Capital Communication and Investor Relations teams have day-to-day responsibility for 
communications with key stakeholders. The Legal corporate team also ensures that the Group meets relevant disclosure 
obligations.
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 2020 URD p. 189
REPORTING PRACTICE
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated 2020 URD p.36,255-256
financial statements
102-46 Defining report content and topic  2020 SR p.2
boundaries
102-47 List of material topics 2020 SRp.10-11
2020 URD p. 189
102-48 Restatements of information - No significant restatements compared to the previous reporting period. 
102-49 Changes in reporting - There have been no significant changes from previous reporting periods in the material topics we are reporting on. 
102-50 Reporting period 2020 SRp.1 Calendar year 2020.
102-51 Date of most recent report 2020 SRp.1
102-52 Reporting cycle Annual
102-53 Contact point for questions  2020 SRp.63
regarding the report
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance  GRI Standards were selected to report specific information but were not used as the main reporting framework for this 
with the GRI Standards report.
102-55 GRI content index - The GRI content index is in accordance with the GRI Standards.
102-56 External assurance 2020 URD p.221-222 At this time, Tikehau Capital does not seek external assurance for its sustainability Report. The Statement of non-financial 
performance of Tikehau Capital SCA presented in its 2020 URDhas been audited in accordance with ISAE 3000.
GRI DISCLOSURE 
DESCRIPTION REFERENCE  COMMENT
NUMBER
MATERIAL TOPICS
ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
201-1 Direct economic value generated  2020 URDp.224
and distributed
201-2 Financial implications and other risks  2020 URDp.197- Tikehau Capital launched pilot climate-risk assessments at portfolio level. Tikehau Capital mandated Trucost to identify the physical risks of real 
and opportunities due to climate change 204 estate and infrastructure assets. The results of the analyses will be included in the ESG and Climate reports of the funds concerned. 
ANTI-CORRUPTION AND RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES
205-2 Communication and training about  2020 URDp.206- Tikehau Capital is subject to a strict regulatory framework regarding anti-money laundering. Asset managers and investment service providers are 
anti-corruption policies and procedures 207 required to report to an anti-money laundering unit under the authority of the French Minister of the Economy, Tracfin(the acronym translates as 
“Intelligence Processing and Action Against Circuits of Illegal Financing”), any amounts recorded in their accounts that theysuspect may derive from 
drug trafficking or organized crime, any unusual transactions exceeding certain amounts and all amounts and transactions thatthey suspect to be 
the result of an offence punishable by a term of imprisonment for one year or which may contribute to the financing of terrorism. 
In addition, the Group deploys internal strategies aiming at reinforcing its anti-money laundering approach. Since July 2011, Tikehau Capital has 
incorporated the principles included in the “UK Bribery Act”, which seeks to fight against corruption and is applied internationally, in its various 
compliance manuals. In 2019, the professional code of ethics reinforced these principles, reminding people that Tikehau Capital is fully committed to 
managing its development in accordance with the highest anti-corruption standards at an international level. It takes into account the regulatory 
framework dictated by the SapinII Law. The Code of Conduct relative to the Prevention of Corruption and Influence Peddling was finalised in Q2 
2020. The employees of each of the Group’s entities are especially aware of the risks of non-compliance of all kinds and of corruption.
EMISSIONS
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 2020 SRp.14
2020 URDp.208, 
200
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 2020 SRp.14
2020 URDp.208, 
200
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 2020 SRp.14, 26
2020 URDp. 208, 
200
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 2020 SRp. 14, 25 For the Group operations, Tikehau Capital discloses its carbon footprint in terms of carbon emissions per capita. The Group is committed to reducing 
its environmental impacts where possible (development of low carbon mobility policy, select efficient buildings, responsible purchasing policy at the 
levels of goods & services). Since 2019, the Group has offset the carbon emissions related to its operations (scope 1, 2 and 3 upstream). In addition, 
for its investment activities, the Group makes it best effort to measure the greenhouse gas emissions of its portfolios. In addition, the Group is 
committed to helping 100% of the portfolio companies in flagship private equity funds to conduct a carbon footprint assessment in the 12 months 
following the investment and to define emission-reduction plans where possible.
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE
307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws  - During the reporting period, no instances of non-compliance with environmental laws or regulations resulting in fines or non-monetary sanctions from 
and regulations competent authorities were identified.
HUMAN CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 2020 URDp.210 Tikehau Capital has a Human Capital Department at Group level. The Head of HR directly reports to the Deputy CEO.
The Human Capital team is responsible for calculating the Group turnover based on the number of leaves in 12-month rolling period divided by the 
average workforce number during the year. 
2020 Group employee turnover: 10.3% (compared to 12.4% in 2019)
TRAINING AND EDUCATION
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills  2020 URDp.213- The talent management and retention policy involves a range of complementary initiatives: ongoing dialogue concerning career development, 
and transition assistance programs 214 training, mobility opportunities, as well as attractive compensation packages and benefits, enabling employees to plan for the future.
The training delivered is designed to ensure that employees can adapt to their roles and develop their skills. As part of itstraining plan, the Group 
works to provide employees with a diverse range of training options.
GRI DISCLOSURE 
DESCRIPTION REFERENCE  COMMENT
NUMBER
MATERIAL TOPICS
TRAINING AND EDUCATION
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular  2020 URDp.213- The firm has deployed multiple initiatives aiming at retaining talent (e.gemployee shareholding, flexible work schedules in specific conditions, remote 
performance and career development reviews 214 working and sports programs)
DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 2020 SRp. 9, 15 The Group believes in a critical and original way of thinking. Thus, promoting a culture of diversity is at the heart of its successful recruitment 
2020 URDp. 168- strategy.
169, 210, 212 Nationalities among the workforce: 26
Percentage of women in permanent staff: 41% 
Percentage of women across Managing Directors: 26%
Proportion of women on investment teams: 27% 
Percentage of women on the Supervisory Board: 40% 
Tikehau Capital is a signatory of the Diversity Charter of France Invest, the leading Private Equity association in France. 
The charter comprises 30 commitments including commitments to increase the alignment of salaries, variable pay and carried interest for women 
and men or implementing family friendly policies. The Group has measured gender pay gaps of its main affiliates and is proactively working to 
reduce these gaps across the organisation. 
NON-DISCRIMINATION
406-1 Incidents of discrimination  2020 URDp.205,  During the reporting period, no incident of discrimination was recorded. The Group trains Human Capital Department employees andraises 
and corrective actions taken 211 awareness among all managers and employees involved in recruitment processes to prevent unlawful discrimination in hiring on grounds of race, 
colour, skin, religion or belief, gender, national or ethnic origin, disability, age, nationality, family status, pregnancy or orientation. In addition, the 
Tikehau Capital Supervisory Board has adopted a diversity policy that is public.
MARKETING AND LABELLING 
417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning  2020 URDp.205 The Group has articulated a responsible marketing approach that is incorporated into its compliance manuals. The Group works hard to 
marketing communications. communicate accurate and clear information that does not mislead investor-clients. The Compliance Department checks presentations that are 
prepared with the purpose of promoting the Company or its funds. The financial and non-financial reports undergo an internal revision process and, 
in some cases, are subject to independent third-party verification.
CUSTOMER PRIVACY
418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches  - During the reporting period, no substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data wereidentified.
of customer privacy and losses of customer data
SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE
419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the - During the reporting period, no incident of non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning social and economic area resulted in fines or legal 
social and economic area action.
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
FS8 Monetary value of products and services  2020 SR p.20-21,22 T2 Energy Transition fund represented €812m of assets under management as of 31.12.2020.
designed to deliver a specific environmental  2020 URDp.72
benefit for each business line broken down by 
purpose
ACTIVE OWNERSHIP
FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in  2020 SR p.21, 32,  For 2020, the Private Equity team has set a target to invite 100% companies in flagship funds to perform a carbon footprint (if not already the case) , 
the institution’s portfolio with which the reporting  36  to measure the gender pay gap annually (if not already the case) and more generally to discuss their sustainability roadmap. At the level of the 
organisation has interacted on environmental or  operations, objectives regarding climate action, reduced inequalities, gender equality and good governance have been set.
social issues
The following table cross-references information relating to the Sustainability Accounting Standard Board (SASB), and in particular Asset Management & Custody
Activitiesdisclosureguidelines,withinformationpublishedinthisreport(SustainabilityReport2020abbreviatedas“2020SR”),aswellasintheTikehauCapital2020
UniversalRegistrationDocument(“2020URD”)andtheGroup’swebsite.
SASB CODE DESCRIPTION REFERENCE  COMMENT
TRANSPARENT INFORMATION & FAIR ADVICE FOR CUSTOMERS
FN-AC-270a.1 (1) Number and (2) percentage of covered  - At the end of 2020, no employees have a record of investment-related investigations.
employees* with a record of investment-related  Tikehau Capital Stock Market Professional Code complements all of the specific arrangements linked to Asset Management 
investigations, consumer-initiated complaints,  regulations, the provision of investment services and regulations on the prevention of money laundering and finance 
private civil litigations, or other regulatory  for terrorism. Training sessions (e.g. prevention of money laundering or finance for terrorism) take place regularly in line 
proceedings with the regulatory obligations of the Group's asset management companies for all investment teams.
FN-AC-270a.2 Total amount of monetary losses as a result  - During the reporting period, no incident of non-compliance with financial industry laws or regulations resulted in monetary 
of legal proceedings associated with marketing  losses.
and communication of financial product related 
information to new and returning customers
FN-AC-270a.3 Description of approach to informing customers  2020URDp.33,205 The Group has articulated a responsible marketing approach that is incorporated into its compliance manuals. The Group 
about products and services works hard to communicate accurate, clear information that does not mislead investor-clients. The Compliance Department 
checks all presentations that are prepared with the purpose of promoting the Group, the Company or its funds. The financial 
and non-financial reports undergo an internal revision process and, in some cases, are subject to independent third-party 
verification.
The Group provides relevant information on the investment strategy and risk profile for each investment product. 
Such disclosure is included both in the Group's website (for open-ended funds) and in the legal documents communicated 
to investors (for all funds). All the hierarchical levels of the organisations are involved in responsible product offering. 
To this end, a dedicated chapter is included in the Compliance Manual for each investment platform.
EMPLOYEE DIVERSITY & INCLUSION
FN-AC-330a.1 Percentage of gender and racial/ethnic group  2020 SR p.11,13,15 At year-end, the Group employees represented more than 26 nationalities. More detailed racial/ethnic statistics are not 
representation for (1) executive management,  2020URDp.212 allowed in France. 
(2) non-executive management,  Men are overrepresented in the Group’s industry. 
(3) professionals, and (4) all other employees In this context, the Group’s recruitment policy aims to promote, wherever possible, applications from women, whenever 
there are vacancies, and particularly for investment roles, to promote gender equality. Special attention is paid to the 
recruitment of trainees so that more women are welcomed into the teams, and to the development of women's careers, 
with measures such as wage increases and possible promotion on return from maternity leave.
INCORPORATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE FACTORS IN INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT & ADVISORY
FN-AC-410a.1 Amount of assets under management,  2020 SR p. 20-21 All of the Group’s strategies are covered by the Sustainable investing policy. A tailored approach was designed 
by asset class, that employ (1) integration  for each of the business lines considering the specific features of each asset class.
of environmental, social, and governance (ESG) 
issues, (2) sustainability-themed investing, 
and (3) screening
FN-AC-410a.2 Description of approach to incorporation  2020 SR p.19 The Group’s responsible investing policy covers the full spectrum of responsible investment through four pillars, ranging 
of environmental, social, and governance (ESG)  2020 URDp.191-204 from exclusions to the development of sustainability-themed products. 
factors in investment and/or wealth management  While ESG integration is the backbone of the Group’s responsible investing strategy, engagement is held on an ad hoc 
processes and strategies basis with a view to helping the portfolio companies improve.
*SASB defines "covered employees" as employees subject to filing forms with the Central Registration Depository (CRD) of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) or with the with the Investment Adviser  Registration Depository (IARD) 
of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Tikehau Capital Group affiliates also report to other regulators such as the French Autoritédes MarchésFinanciers (AMF), the UK Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) or the Monetary 
Authority of Singapore (MAS).
SASB CODE DESCRIPTION REFERENCE  COMMENT
INCORPORATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE FACTORS IN INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT & ADVISORY
FN-AC-410a.3 Description of proxy voting and investee  2020 URD p.194 Tikehau Capital has pledged to vote at shareholder meetings of all companies held in funds (fund of funds excluded) 
engagement policies and procedures regardless of the nationality of issuing companies, as long as the issuer provides sufficient information and as long as its 
custodians are able to take its votes into account. Depending on the proximity with the management of the portfolio 
companies, the Group deploys tailored engagement campaigns. 
See examples in Private Debt and Private Equity activities in this document.
BUSINESS ETHICS
FN-AC-510a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result  During the reporting period, no incident of non-compliance with financial industry laws or regulations resulted in monetary 
of legal proceedings associated with fraud,  losses.
insider trading, anti-trust, anti-competitive 
behaviour, market manipulation, malpractice, 
or other related financial industry laws 
or regulations
FN-AC-510a.2 Description of whistle-blower policies  2020 URDp.206-207 Compliance with ethical principles is a fundamental pillar of the Group's investment and Asset Management activities 
and procedures and a key element for its reputation. In all of its actions, Tikehau Capital is committed to complying with rules of conduct 
with respect to all its stakeholders and in the way it conducts its business. These rules of conduct are laid down 
in the Group's Code of Ethics. 
One of the essential principles is combating behaviours or practices that run counter to business ethics, such as corruption 
or influence peddling.
Moreover, a whistleblowing system has been implemented and the data gathered in 2020 did not reveal any material 
problems.
SYSTEMIC RISK MANAGEMENT
FN-AC-550a.1 Percentage of open-end fund assets under  At 31.12.2020, Tikehau IM and Sofidy open-end fund assets under management (AuM of €10.4bn) can be classified as 
management by category of liquidity classification follows: 
(1) 25% of highly liquid investments (one day or less) 
(2) 18% moderately liquid investments (more than one day or less than seven days), 
(3) <3% less liquid investments (more than 7 days and less than 31 days), and 
(4) <55% of illiquid investments (above 31 days)
FN-AC-550a.2 Description of approach to incorporation of  2020 URDp.105-107 Tikehau Capital manages its liquidity risk by maintaining a store of available cash and liquid investments 
liquidity risk management programs into portfolio  (the current portfolio) that is sufficient for covering its current debts.
strategy and redemption 
FN-AC-550a.3 Total exposure to securities financing  - Tikehau Capital had no exposure to securities financing transactions as of year-end 2020.
transactions
FN-AC-550a.4 Net exposure to written credit derivatives 2020 URDp.67 Through its fixed income activities, and namely through its funds Tikehau Credit Plus (€408m as at year-end) and Tikehau 
SubfinFund (€402m as at year-end), the Group could have a limited exposure to credit derivatives.
ACTIVITY METRICS
FN-AC-000.A (1) Total registered* and (2) total unregistered  2020 URDp.26-28 As of year-end 2020
assets under management (AuM) Total registered AuM: €28,530m
Total unregistered AuM: €9m
FN-AC-000.B Total assets under custody and supervision Not applicable as at 31.12.2020
*Registered AuMinclude those subject to the regulations of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (1940 Act), such as mutual funds, managed under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA), subject 
to the Undertakings for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities (UCITS) Directive, or managed under the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s (CFTC’s) Commodity Pool Operator (CPO) regulations.
PRINCIPAL ADVERSE IMPACTS DESCRIPTION CURRENT DATA AVILABILITY
CAPITAL MARKETS 
PRIVATE EQUITY PRIVATE DEBT STRATEGIES REAL ASSETS
Measure of the Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions and Scope 3 from 
1. GHG Emissions 1 January 2023 expressed in tons of CO.This is based on  High Low Low Low
2
absolute emissions, either reported or estimated. 
Measure of the carbon emissions of the portfolio companies. This 
2. Carbon footprint is based on absolute emissions, either reported or estimated. The  High Low Low Low
result is expressed in terms of tonnes of CO. 
2
This relates to the GHG emissions of companies divided by their 
3. GHG intensity of investee companies revenues and relative to the value of Tikehau Capital’s investment  High Low Low Low
Greenhouse  in that company (WACI).
gas emissions
Share of AuM in companies exposed to the fossil fuel sector, in 
4. Exposure to companies active in the fossil  particular in companies deriving revenues from exploration, 
High High High High
fuel sector mining, extraction, distribution or refining of various types of fossil 
fuels.
5. Share of non-renewable energy  Assessment of the share of non renewable and renewable energy 
Medium Low Low Low
consumption and production consumption of the portfolio companies.
6. Energy consumption intensity per high  Energy consumption in GWh per million EUR of revenue of 
High Medium Medium Low
impact climate sector investee companies, per high impact climate sector.
7. Activities negatively affecting biodiversity- Number of companies operating in biodiversity sensitive areas 
Biodiversity Low Low Low Low
sensitive areas (using UN PRI maps). 
Tonnes of emissions to water generated by investee companies 
Water 8. Emissions to water Low Low Low Low
per million EUR invested, expressed as a weighted average.
Tonnes of hazardous waste generated by investee companies per 
Waste 9. Hazardous waste ratio Low Low Low Low
million EUR invested, expressed as a weighted average.
10. Violations of UN Global Compact 
Share of investments in investee companies that are considered to 
principles and Organisation for Economic 
be operating in violation of the UNGC principles or OECD  High High High High
Cooperation and Development (OECD) 
Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises in the year of the report.
Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises
11. Lack of processes and compliance 
Share of investments in investee companies without policies to 
mechanisms to monitor compliance with UN 
monitor compliance with the UNGC principles or OECD  High High Medium Low
Global Compact principles and OECD 
Guidelines.
guidelines
Social matters
12. Unadjusted gender pay gap Average unadjusted gender pay gap of investee companies. Low Low Low Low
Average ratio of female to male board members in investee 
13. Board gender diversity High High Low Low
companies.
14. Exposure to controversial weapons (anti- Share of investments in investee companies involved in the 
personnel mines, cluster munitions, chemical  manufacture or selling of anti-personnel mines, cluster munitions,  High High High High
weapons and biological weapons) chemical weapons and biological weapons.
Source: ESMA, Final Report, including the draft Regulatory Technical Standards (RTS), on the content, methodologies and presentation of disclosures under the EU Regulation on sustainability-related disclosures in the financial services sector 
(SFDR) available here. 
DISCLOSURES 2020 SR SECTION COMMENT
Article 1, III, 1°Information relating to the overall approach of 
the entity:
a) general approach and integration of ESG into the  II. Sustainability approach; III. Focus on climate 
Please also refer to Tikehau Capital’s Sustainable Investing Charter
investment strategy approach; V. Focus on impact approach
Tikehau capital provides an annual Sustainability Report and a Sustainable Development Chapter within the Group’s 
b) content, frequency and means of communication to  Universal Registration Document. These documents include the Group’s approach to responsible investing as well as the 
Not included in this report
investors main results of the annual monitoring of ESG or climate-related factors for each activity. Flagship funds may have 
additional ESG-dedicated reports or ESG sections in the mainstream communication with investors. 
c) percentage of assets under management aligned with the  While the Group’s responsible investing strategy is applicable across the business units, the Group expects at least 42% 
Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 on Sustainable Finance  V. Focus on impact approach of AuMwill be aligned with article 8 and 5% with article 9 by the end of 2021 (i.e. updating the fund’s documentation to 
Disclosure Regulation (“SFDR”) Articles 8 and 9 include ESG integration strategy).
d) taking ESG criteria into account when awarding new 
n/a Not applicable for Tikehau Capital activity.
mandates
Tikehau Capital is a signatory of the UN PRI since 2014. The Group has joined the Net Zero Asset Managers Initiative 
and has an active role in ESG and impact related working Groups across the investment industry (e.g. FranceInvest, 
ELFA, WRI, etc.)
e) joined initiatives or obtained ESG labels II. Sustainability approach -Key milestones
At 31 December 2020, 19 labelled funds represented €6.8 billion (around a quarter of the Group’s assets under 
management). 15 Funds have obtained the LuxFlag ESG, in addition, 3 fund have obtained the French RelanceLabel and 
one fund has obtained the French ISR label.
Article 1, III, 2°Description of the means deployed by the 
entity:
At the date of the publication of the Sustainability Report, the ESG team is composed of 4 FTEs. In addition, investment 
a) FTE in percentage, amounts spent on ESG integration, in-II. Sustainability approach –ESG Governance; and research teams have ESG responsibilities (over 200 employees dedicating about 10% of their time to ESG 
house research and use of external contractors IV. Focus on climate approach –Climate  integration). 
Action centre
For more information, please refer to Tikehau Capital’s 2020 URD p.191
The Tikehau Capital ESG team was reinforced in 2020 and 2021 and is now composed of 4 FTEs. There is one dedicated 
FTE for the integration of ESG and impact across the Private Equity business line and two recruitments are underway for 
b) developments to strengthen internal capabilities Not included in this report the management of the Private Debt and the Real Estate activities.
Trainings are regularly organised to ensure the development of internal capabilities (e.g. interventions of the Head of 
Climate to address the Group’s climate strategy).
Article 1, III, 3°Consideration of ESG criteria at the 
governance level of the entity:
ESG is integrated in the Group’s governing bodies. In March 2021, the Appointment and Remuneration Committee of the 
Supervisory Board was renamed Governance and Sustainability Committee and new responsibilities were appointed, the 
a) at the level of governance bodies II. Sustainability approach –ESG Governance  Group’s ESG and CSR strategy is discussed at every meeting. The Group set up an Executive Committee starting from 
1stSeptember 2021. The Group’s Deputy CEO supervising ESG, communications and human resources is a member of 
the Committee.
The remuneration policies of the Group’s French asset management companies now include sustainability risks, in 
b) in terms of remuneration policies Not included in this report
compliance with the SFDR recommendations. Please refer to Tikehau Capital’s 2020 URD p.89
The rules of the Governance and Sustainability Committee were updated to include ESG responsibilities. Please refer to 
c) at the level of the internal rules of the governance entities Not included in this report
Tikehau Capital’s 2020 URD p.176
DISCLOSURES 2020 SR SECTION COMMENT
Article 1, III, 4°Voting and engagement strategy and review 
of the procedures implemented
Tikehau Capital has defined an Engagement and Voting policywhich is applicable to all of the Group activities. 
III. Sustainability investing Where relevant, Tikehau Capital investment analysts and ESG teams communicate with portfolio companies with a view to creating long-
a) Scope of the engagement strategy V. Sustainable investing across term value. The level and the quality of the engagement depends on the specificities of the asset class. The details of the engagement are 
activities described in the dedicated section for each activity. 
Sofidy has defined its own Engagement and Voting policy as well.
Tikehau Capital has defined an Engagement and Voting policywhich is applicable to all of the Group activities.
The annual general meeting (AGM) is the place for exercising voting rights and therefore a core component of corporate governance. This 
b) Presentation of the voting policy Not included in this report is why Tikehau Capital has pledged to vote at shareholder meetings of all companies held in funds (fund of funds excluded) regardless of 
the nationality of issuing companies, as long as the issuer provides sufficient information and as long as its custodians areable to take its 
votes into account.
In 2020-2021, the investment and ESG teams actively engaged with the majority of portfolio companies in flagship funds in private equity 
c) Results of the engagement strategy Not included in this report
and private debt (direct lending and corporate lending activities), as well as with all investments in SFDR article 9 funds.
Tikehau IM voting report here.
d) Results of the voting policy Not included in this report
Sofidy voting report here.
e) Decisions taken in terms of divestment or sector  In 2021, Tikehau Capital decided to reinforce the exclusion policy available within the Group’s Sustainable Investing policy.
Not included in this report
exclusions Since 2018, 3 investments have been declined by the ESG Committee on ESG considerations.
Article 1, III, 5°Information on the strategy of alignment 
Tikehau Capital is working on a Biodiversity and Climate Strategy. Overall commitments are included in the Sustainable Investing 
with the international objectives of limiting global warming set 
Charter.
by the Paris Agreement
The assessment Green share of the AuM (initially the alignment and eventually the eligibility to the EU Taxonomy) is includedinthe 
a) Share of AuMeligible to the EU Taxonomy (assess  Not included in this report roadmap for 2022.
against the technical criteria)
The Group will conduct this assessment for the funds with a Sustainable Objective in the sense of the SFDR Article 9 as a priority.
b) Share of AuMin the fossil fuel sector Not included in this report Exposure to thermal coal and oil & gas represents less than 1% of the Group’s AuM.
Article 1, III, 6°Information on the strategy of alignment 
with the international objectives of limiting global warming set  One of the key objectives of the Group’s impact platform is to contribute to climate change mitigation.
by the Paris Agreement 
a) Definition of a climate quantitative objective in line with a  The Group will launch an SBTi definition exercise as part of the roadmap for 2021-2022. Initially, the exercise will be conducted for the 
IV. Focus on climate approach
recognised methodology Private Equity business unit, where the Group has the most significant means to influence the trajectory. 
The SBTiwill have an impact on the investment strategy, both for the selection of new investments and for the engagement with portfolio
e) The role of the assessment in the investment strategy Not included in this report
companies, at least for the private equity strategy.
In 2021, the Group reinforced its responsible investing charter to further include climate and biodiversity considerations. In addition, the 
Group adopted the Net Zero Asset Managers Initiative. In this context, Tikehau Capital has identified 4 main pathways to materialise 
commitments:
• Invest in solutions (>€ 1m invested in the energy and ecological transition)
• Reinforce negative screening
f) The main updates of the responsible investing strategy to 
promote alignment with the Paris agreements Not included in this report • Measure impacts and engage
• Identify and manage risks
In particular in 2021, the Group launched new investment vehicles contributing to climate objectives, reinforced the exclusion policy to set 
more ambitious standards regarding the progressive phase-out of thermal coal and controversial fossil fuels. In particular, (i) the transition 
from a 30% to a 5% revenues threshold for investments exposed to thermal coal and, (ii) the exclusion of companies with more than 5% 
of revenues from controversial fossil fuels (i.e. artic drilling, deep offshore oil and gas, oil sands and shale gas).
DISCLOSURES 2020 SR SECTION COMMENT
Tikehau Capital is working on a Biodiversity and Climate Strategy. Overall commitments are included in the 
Article 1, III, 7°Information on the strategy of alignment with long-term objectives 
Not included in this report Sustainable Investing Charter. In 2021, the Group started to incorporate questions related to biodiversity in 
related to biodiversity
the ESG questionnaires at the pre-investment and monitoring phases of the investments.
Article 1, III, 8°Information on the procedures for taking environmental, social and 
governance quality criteria into account in risk management:
III. Sustainability investing ESG criteria are integrated across business units and across the investment lifecycle. 
a) ESG risk management and process of integration into the investment cycle
IV. Focus on climate approach Please also refer to Section 6 “Internal controls” of Tikehau Capital’s Sustainable Investing Charter.
Appendix 3 –Principal adverse 
b) a description of main ESG risks
impact indicators 
III. Sustainability investing
The Tikehau Capital proprietary ESG tools are reviewed periodically to include and update sources and 
c) an indication of the review frequency of the risk management framework V. Sustainable investing across  benchmarks. 
activities
ESG risks are considered in portfolio definition and monitoring, however they are not considered in financial 
d) an action plan to reduce exposure to main ESG risks
modelling. A pilot project will be launched as part of the ESG roadmap for H2 2021-2022.
A pilot project at the level of the private equity business line will be launched in H2 2021-2022 to assess the 
e) a quantitative estimate of the financial impact of the main ESG risks
financial impact of sustainability risks and opportunities.
f) methodological developments These may be shared upon request.
Tikehau Capital has developed proprietary tools and appoints ESG and environmental experts to contribute 
Article 1, III, 8°bis –Minimum standards to ensure the quality of the data, the  to the quality of data. Climate risks and opportunities are intrinsically included in the assessments of 
assessment of climate-related risks and biodiversity-related risks investment targets and during the holding period. A pilot project was launched in 2021 to further include 
climate-related risks in the sense of the TCFD recommendations.
Article 1, III, 9°-Action plan to ensure the compliance with the Article 29  Tikehau Capital is working on a Biodiversity and Climate Strategy. Overall commitments are included in the 
recommendations Sustainable Investing Charter.
SCOPE 1
GHG directly emitted by companies 
from their fixed or mobile facilities
SCOPE 2
Indirect emissions related to energy 
consumption for the production 
of goods and services 
SCOPE 3
Other indirect emissions that take 
place upstream or downstream 
in the value chain
Source: GHG protocol
Other terms used to describe avoided emissions are: climate positive, net-positive accounting and scope 4.
Source: World Resources Institute (WRI)
In line with the recommendations of the TCFD, Tikehau Capital considers risks related Tikehau Capital mandated Trucost to identify the physical risks of certain real estate
toclimatechange: and infrastructureassets. Trucost Climate Change PhysicalRisk Analytics offer an assetlevel
approach to the assessment of physical risk at the company and portfolio level, and in the
i. Transition risks, especially regulatory, technological, market and reputational risks, future, modelling of the magnitude of the potential impact of such risks on financial
are taken into account in the basic analysis carried out by the investment teams. performance.TrucostClimateChangePhysicalRiskAnalyticsincorporatestheextensiveasset
The T2 Energy Transition fund teams, in particular, carry out in-depth assessments leveldatasetsandexpertiseofS&PMarketIntelligenceinthemappingofcorporateownership
of the main issues relating to climate change (e.g. changes in energy prices or structures.
technologicalchangesassociatedwithlowercarbonemissions).
Trucost's physical risk analysis shown on pages 45 and 47 is based on the most pessimistic
ii.Physical risks, defined as the exposure of Real Assets to physical consequences climate change scenario, RCP (Representative Concentration Pathways) 8.5, which assumes
directlycausedbyclimatechange(chronicevents–suchasglobalwarmingandrising continued human activity with carbon emissions at current rates. This scenario is expected
sealevels-andextremeevents–suchasfiresandcyclones). toresultinawarmingofmorethan4degreesby2100.
During the pre-investment stage, the ESG scoring grid comprises numerous questions
relating to physical risks. A mapping of the physical risks by country is shared with the
investment teams. As part of the monitoring of investments, analyses are conducted for
certain assets (for Real Estate strategies) or certain funds with the help of specialised
serviceproviders.

This reporthas been preparedbyTikehauCapital anditsaffiliates("TikehauCapital")forinformationpurposesonly.
The information contained in this report does not constitute a solicitation or offer to any person to subscribe for, buy or sell any related securities,
options, funds units or any other financial instruments or services or anyrecommendation to make an investment or atransaction. It pays noregard
totheinvestmentobjectivesorfinancial needsoftherecipient.No actionshould betakenor omittedtobetakenbasedonthisreport.
This report is not advice on legal, taxation or investment matters, therefore recipients must rely on their own examination of such matters or seek
advice. Beforemakinganyinvestment(neworcontinuous),please consult aprofessionaland/orinvestmentadviser astoitssuitability.
TikehauCapital cannotbeheld liable foranydecision takenonthebasis ofthisreport.
The statements in this report are made as of the date of this report, unless otherwise indicated, and the transmission of the report does not imply
that the information contained herein is accurate as of any subsequent date. Tikehau Capital has made its best efforts to ensure that the
information contained in this report that is derived from external sources, is reliable in all respects as of the date of this report. Some figures
(including data expressed in thousands or millions) and percentages presented in this report have been rounded. If applicable, the totals presented
in thisreportmaydifferslightlyfromwhat would have beenobtainedbyadding theexact (notrounded)values ofthesefigures.
Certain economic ormarket information contained in this report is derivedfrom sourcespublished bythirdparties.While these sources arebelieved
tobereliable, neitherTikehauCapital northemembersofits managementteamcanbeheld responsiblefortheinaccuracyofsuchinformation.
Any statements contained in this report which are made in the context of an opinion and/or belief, as well as any forecasts or statements regarding
expectations of future events or the potential performance of a fund, represent only Tikehau Capital’s own assessment and interpretation of the
information available as of the date of this report. As a result of these various risks and uncertainties, actual results may differ materially from those
reflectedin this report.
This reporthas notbeen approvedbyanyregulatorybody.
Forfurtherinformation,please contactTikehauCapital.
