
Biodiversity Statement
Biodiversity Statement
Purpose of our Biodiversity Statement Why biodiversity is important to us
Our Biodiversity Statement shows UBS’s approach to protecting  Our concept of sustainability is guided by the United Nations 
biodiversity and ecosystems across all of our activities globally.  (UN) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The SDGs bring 
In line with our commitment to the Principles for Responsible  together the enormous societal and environmental challeng-
Banking (PRB) and our participation in the Banking for Impact  es the world faces. We recognize that it is important to un-
(BFI) working group, our Statement demonstrates our desire to  derstand these challenges as well as the opportunities arising 
seek to achieve positive impacts and reduce potentially adverse  from them, to consider their relevance to UBS and to identify 
impacts on biodiversity and natural capital. potential actions our firm may need to take.
 
Biodiversity loss, expressed most directly in SDGs 14 and 15 
(“Life below water” and “Life on Land” respectively), but also 
linked to other SDGs (e.g., SDG 13 “Climate Action”) is a major 
threat to our planet. Even though every aspect of human activ-
ity highly depends on biodiversity and ecosystem services, our 
planet faces an unprecedented decline in biological diversity 
which undermines human existence.
UBS recognizes the risks associated with biodiversity loss (as 
for instance highlighted in the WEF Global Risk Report 2020), 
the economic value of ecosystem services, and the critical role 
of financial institutions in nature protection. Hence we have 
developed a structured approach as described in more detail 
below.
2
Our approach to biodiversity
Our Governance Biodiversity is part of our overall integration of ESG consider-
ations into the investment process. We also mobilize private 
Our approach to biodiversity is overseen by the Board of Direc- and institutional capital for investments that facilitate climate 
tors of UBS Group AG, notably by the Corporate Culture and  change mitigation and adaptation. In this regard we have for-
Responsibility Committee. Our firm’s Group Executive Board  mulated a Climate Aware framework which helps investors 
is responsible to drive our efforts pertaining to biodiversity.  align their portfolios towards a climate-smart future by lower-
These efforts are coordinated by our Group Sustainability and  ing investment exposures to carbon risk, increasing investment 
Impact organization, which acts as a focal point and center of  exposure  to  climate-related  innovation  and  solutions,  and 
excellence, responsible for driving the implementation of our  aligning portfolios to an investor’s chosen climate glidepath.
sustainability strategy. Our Business Divisions and other func-
tions, including in particular Risk, HR and Corporate Services,  UBS Asset Management has an extensive engagement pro-
ensure the implementation of our approach to biodiversity. gram on climate issues. The impact of company operations 
and products on biodiversity is an important consideration 
We seek to promote nature and biodiversity, focusing  in analyzing the impact of companies on climate change and 
on our clients, our vendors, our employees, and society  these factors are included as part of our climate assessments 
at large.  of companies.
In assessing biodiversity-related impacts we focus in particular  Our ambition is to be a leader in Sustainable Finance across all 
on three key stakeholder groups (clients, vendors, employees)  client segments and to achieve this we continuously develop 
and on society at large. our offering in this area. Serving clients’ sustainable finance 
needs, our Investment Bank supported 33 green, social and 
Our clients sustainability bond transactions in 2020, with many of those 
Forests and biodiversity are stated as areas of focus in our  providing benefits to terrestrial and aquatic biodiversity.
environmental and social risk (ESR) policy framework, which 
articulates our commitment to address related risks. Our ESR  Through our philanthropy services, we offer innovative ways to 
framework, applied to all our activities worldwide, helps us  tackle some of the world’s most pressing environmental prob-
to identify and manage potential adverse impacts to the envi- lems. We published the guide “Sea beyond the Blue” to help 
ronment and to human rights, as well as the associated risks  philanthropists make more informed decisions about ocean-re-
affecting our clients and our firm. We have set standards in  lated philanthropy, pointing out the importance to protect ma-
product development, investments, financing and for supply  rine biodiversity and how to drive systematic change. In 2021 
chain management decisions. We also engage with clients  we published “Seeds of Change”, a guide for philanthropists 
and suppliers to better understand their processes and pol- and changemakers to protect biodiversity and all life on land. 
icies and to explore how any environmental and social risks  Also, UBS Optimus Foundation with the Swiss Agency for De-
may be mitigated. Recognizing the biodiversity-related risks,  velopment and Cooperation supported the issuance of the 
we have identified and will not engage in certain activities that  strategic reports “The Blended Finance Playbook for Nature 
endanger animal species and contribute to deforestation and  Based Solutions” and “Financing the Earth’s Assets: The Case 
its related impacts. Our standards for controversial activities  for Mangroves”, by Earth Security.
and areas of concern not only take into account deforestation 
and forest degradation but also other activities like fisheries,  We support social entrepreneurs to scale their positive change 
which have an impact on marine species. by connecting them with our network of employees, partners, 
and clients, via the UBS Global Visionaries program. Through 
We want to be the financial provider of choice for clients who  this program we are supporting, for instance, IPE (Institute for 
wish to mobilize capital towards the achievement of the 17  Ecological Research) which is dedicated to biodiversity conser-
Sustainable Development Goals and the orderly transition to  vation in Brazil.
a low-carbon economy. As the world’s largest truly global 
wealth manager, we regard it as particularly critical to help  To raise awareness and support for the SDGs, UBS has initiated 
private wealth contribute to fund the development of a more  the #TOGETHERBAND campaign jointly with BOTTLETOP. For 
sustainable world. UBS recognizes the importance of mobiliz- SDG 14, Life Below Water, the world-renowned oceanogra-
ing and significantly increasing financial resources to achieve  pher and expert, Sylvia Earle, among other high-profile am-
SDGs 14 and 15 and conserve biodiversity and ecosystems. bassadors, joined the campaign. To further drive awareness 
of critical environmental and social issues we also host and 
broadcast a regular series of conversations with leading envi-
ronmentalists and social rights supporters. Past speakers have 
included Dr Jane Goodall.
3
Our vendors Our commitment to Net Zero
Our firm-wide Responsible Supply Chain Management (RSCM) 
framework is based on identifying, assessing, and monitor- Climate change affects biodiversity and is likely to become one 
ing vendor association with environmental and social issues.  of the most significant drivers of biodiversity loss by the end 
A central component of this guideline is the UBS Responsi- of the century. UBS’s comprehensive climate strategy under-
ble Supply Chain Standard, to which our direct vendors are  lines our commitment to the SDGs on climate action and on 
normally bound by contract. We expect our vendors to apply  affordable and clean energy and supports an orderly transition 
these same standards to relationships with their vendors. to a low-carbon economy, as defined by the Paris Agreement. 
Our firm aims to be a leading financial provider in enabling 
Seeking to reduce negative environmental and social effects  investors to mobilize private and institutional capital to climate 
of the goods and services UBS purchases, we have undertak- change mitigation and adaptation while supporting the tran-
en a global review of our purchase catalogues and introduced  sition to a low-carbon economy as corporate advisor, and/or 
environmentally friendly alternatives to products where avail- with our lending capacity. We support this transition through 
able. We have removed over 370 items from our purchasing  our comprehensive Climate Strategy.
catalogues including all plastic and single use items. Environ-
mentally unfriendly items have been substituted or tagged as  –  In April 2021, we further advanced our climate strategy with 
“think before you buy”. our Net Zero Statement. It outlines our climate ambitions 
for the future and covers our company, our clients, com-
Our employees munities and our employees. We will develop and publish 
We have launched several campaigns to involve our employees  a comprehensive climate action plan for achieving net zero 
and raise awareness of our environmental impact and of bio- greenhouse gas emissions across all our operations by 2050 
diversity loss. A notable example is the campaign “Go drastic,  by the end of the year.
Cut the plastic” to eliminate single-use plastic items from use  –  To underline our commitment to Net Zero, we became a 
throughout the firm. It supports SDG 14 – Life below water, as  founding member of the Net Zero Banking Alliance (NZBA), 
millions of tons of plastic end up in the oceans annually. A fur- a group of global banks committed to aligning their financ-
ther noteworthy initiative is the creation of the Going Greener  ing portfolios with pathways to net-zero carbon emissions 
app where UBS employees take on fun challenges and get in- by 2050.
teresting facts and practical tips around sustainability and cli- –  We had already become a founding signatory of the Net 
mate-friendly behaviors for their daily life. Zero Asset Managers Initiative, a leading group of global 
asset managers committed to support the goal of net zero 
UBS also shows its commitment to tackle biodiversity loss by  GHG emissions by 2050 or sooner.
reducing its direct climate impact. We continue to drive the  –  With regard to our bank’s own footprint, we will work to-
reduction of our GHG emissions and therefore have committed  ward offsetting our historical emissions back to the year 
to achieving net zero emissions in our own operations (scope 1  2000. This will be based on transparent carbon offsets and 
and 2) by 2025. In 2020, we achieved the target of using 100%  investments in nature-based solutions.
renewable electricity. This reduces our firm’s GHG footprint by 
79% compared with 2004 levels.
Our firm undertakes extensive sustainability awareness raising 
and specialist training (e.g., ESR focused trainings). Both in-
clude components pertaining to biodiversity.
4
Our external engagement UBS acknowledges that transparency on nature-related risks 
and opportunities are essential to the health of the environ-
We are actively involved in relevant developments, demon- ment and to the broader economy given dependencies on 
strating thought leadership on biodiversity topics. Most no- natural capital. UBS therefore supports the efforts of the Task-
tably these include our membership of the Roundtable on  force on Nature-related Financial Disclosures (TNFD) initiative 
Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO), where we also act as a member  towards the development a framework that will help reduce 
of its complaints panel, and our participation in various work  risks to the environment and create opportunities to support 
streams of the Natural Capital Finance Alliance (NCFA), which  natural capital.
aims to provide the knowledge and tools that help the financial 
sector to align portfolios with global biodiversity goals. Most 
notably we participate in the advisory committee for the sec- We regularly review our approach to biodiversity
ond stage of the NCFA’s project tool ENCORE (Exploring Natu-
ral Capital Opportunities, Risks and Exposure). Seeking to constantly improve our contribution to nature pro-
tection, we continuously evolve our approach to biodiversity. 
We have endorsed the Banking Environment Initiative’s and  As part of the process, we consider developments and chal-
Consumer Goods Forum’s “Soft Commodities” Compact. In  lenges pertaining to biodiversity loss and nature conservation 
doing so, we aim to support the transformation of soft com- and align our approach accordingly.
modity supply chains by expecting producers to be committed 
to achieving full certification according to applicable sustain- To enable our stakeholder groups to review our progress we 
ability certification schemes, such as the RSPO. provide transparency on our commitments and actions on 
www.ubs.com/gri. 
We also take into consideration the expectations of regula-
tors regarding biodiversity risk management where these have  Please contact us for any concerns, feedback, comments by 
been specified in addition to climate. sending an email to cr@ubs.com.
d.
e
v
er
es
hts r
g
All ri
S. 
B
U
of 
ks 
ar
m
e
d
a
d tr
e
er
gist
e
nr
u
d 
n
a
d 
e
er
gist
e
e r
h
g t
n
o
m
a
e 
ar
S 
B
U
d 
n
a
ol 
b
m
y
y s
e
k
e 
h
T
1. 
2
0
2
S 
B
U