
UBS Human Rights
 Statement
UBS Human Rights Statement
What is the UBS Human Rights Statement Who looks after our Human Rights Statement
Our  Human  Rights  Statement  shows  UBS’s  commitment  to  Our approach to human rights is overseen by the Board of  
respecting internationally recognized human rights1 across our  Directors, notably by the Corporate Culture and Responsibility 
firm globally. It shows the structures (governance, policies) and  Committee (CCRC). Our firm’s Group Executive Board drives our 
mechanisms (procedures, processes) UBS has in place to support  efforts pertaining to human rights. Other management bodies 
its commitment. ensure the implementation of our approach to human rights. 
The purpose of our Human Rights Statement We regularly review our Human Rights Statement
Our Human Rights Statement demonstrates our desire to maxi- Our Human Rights Statement is not set in stone. In the spirit of 
mize positive impacts on society and reducing as far as possible  continuous improvement, it is subject to a regular review process. 
potentially negative impacts. This is in line with key pledges of  As part of the process, we consider developments and challenges 
our firm, notably to the Principles for Responsible Banking (PRB)2   pertaining to human rights. Where we deem it necessary, we 
and  the  UN  Global  Compact  (UNGC)3.  The  Statement  also  amend the Statement accordingly.
reflects the elements of the UN Guiding Principles on Busi-
ness and Human Rights (UNGPs)4. In this Statement we outline  
what we do and what we avoid in order to ensure respect for 
human rights.
1  The responsibility of business enterprises to respect human rights refers to internationally recognized human rights – understood, at a minimum, as those expressed in the International Bill of Human Rights 
and the principles concerning fundamental rights set out in the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work (Guiding Principles on Business and Human  
Rights – Implementing the United Nations “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework).
2  The Principles for Responsible Banking (PRB) are a framework for ensuring that signatory banks’ strategy and practice align with the vision society has set out for its future in the Sustainable Development Goals 
and the Paris Climate Agreement.
3  The UNGC is founded in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labor Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, the Rio Declaration on Environment and 
Development and the UN Convention Against Corruption.
4		The	UNGPs	are	grounded	in	recognition	of:	(a)	States’	existing	obligations	to	respect,	protect	and	fulfil	human	rights	and	fundamental	freedoms;	(b)	The	role	of	business	enterprises	as	specialized	organs	of	
society	performing	specialized	functions,	required	to	comply	with	all	applicable	laws	and	to	respect	human	rights;	(c)	The	need	for	rights	and	obligations	to	be	matched	to	appropriate	and	effective	remedies	
when breached. The UNGPs apply to all States and to all business enterprises, both transnational and others, regardless of their size, sector, location, ownership and structure.
2
What guides us … identify and manage potential adverse impacts to human 
We’re committed to respecting human rights, as set out in the  rights that our clients’ and our own assets are exposed to.  
UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs),  We aim to avoid, identify and manage potential contributions  
in our business activities. Our commitment in this important area  to human rights violations. Our environmental and social risk 
is long standing. In 2000, we were among the first companies  function conducts ongoing reviews of our business relationships 
that pledged to adhere to the UN Global Compact Principles,  and portfolio underlying assets to assess whether they might lead 
including on human rights. In 2011, the UN took a significant  to or be exposed to potential negative impacts. We have identi-
step by endorsing the UNGPs. At this point, UBS together with  fied certain controversial activities we will not engage in, or will 
other banks formed the Thun Group of Banks to jointly consider  only engage in under stringent criteria.
these developments and conclusions and to share experiences 
and ideas regarding the implementation of the UNGPs by banks. With regard to vendors we commit to …
… reduce negative social effects of the goods and services UBS 
We recognize that respect of human rights is essential to achiev- purchases. To do so we identify high-risk vendors when establish-
ing sustainable development globally. They are integral to the  ing new contracts or renewals, based on the vendors’ provision 
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which  of goods and services that have either a substantial social impact, 
guide our concept of sustainability. The 17 SDGs bring together  or are sourced in markets with potentially high social risks.  
the enormous societal and environmental challenges the world  Vendors associated with potential human rights risks that do not 
faces. We are committed to play a leading role in providing both  fulfill the minimum applicable standards have to agree and com-
finance and expertise to meet these ambitious global Goals. As  ply with a remediation plan before contract signature.
human rights standards are embedded in the SDGs, respecting 
human rights is a key consideration in our business practices. 
Which key policies and procedures do we have in place
Who we’re looking at
As a global bank we recognize our impact as investor, employer,  Overarching
vendee, tax payer and protector of our clients’ assets. In assessing  It is our goal to be the financial provider of choice for clients 
UBS’s potential human rights impacts we focus in particular on  wishing to mobilize capital towards the SDGs. The UBS in Society  
three key stakeholder groups (employees, clients, vendors) and  constitutional document defines the principles and responsi-
on society at large. bilities for promoting this commitment systematically across all 
relevant businesses and for implementing the ethical standards 
With regard to employees we commit to … defined in our Code of Conduct and Ethics (Code) that govern our 
… respect human rights standards through our human resources  interactions with society and the environment.
policies and practices. We review these policies and practices on 
a regular basis to ensure that human rights and labor rights con- Employees
tinue to be respected. We are committed to meeting the obli- In our Code we commit to diversity and equal opportunities 
gations that a responsible company is expected to comply with.   regardless of ethnicity, gender, nationality, age, ability, sexual  
This includes our commitment to a diverse and inclusive work- orientation or religion. This includes zero-toleration of any kind  
place, with equal opportunities for all employees and a strong  of discrimination, bullying or harassment. To achieve this we 
commitment to pay fairness that is embedded in all compensa- encourage employees to speak up and report any concerns, with-
tion policies and practices. out fear of reprisals. And we ask all employees annually to con-
firm that they have read and will adhere to the Code.
Our Total Reward Principles (TRP) approach includes support-
ing the health and wellbeing of our employees by providing cer- We have a whistleblowing policy and respective procedures 
tain benefits such as insurance and retirement benefits, that are  and offer multiple channels (including a whistleblowing and  
intended to be marked aligned in each of the locations in which  sexual misconduct hotline) for staff to raise concerns about any  
we operate.  suspected breaches of laws, regulations, rules or other legal 
requirements, sexual misconduct or harassment, or any infringe-
With regard to clients we commit to … ment of our Code, policies or professional standards. 
… provide them with innovative investment solutions in themes 
related to human rights such as health, education, gender or and  Regionally we complement this with strong procedures to help us 
equality, in addition to taking human rights risks into account in  resolve employee grievances. 
solutions that address a broader range of sustainability issues. 
We offer a range of sustainable and impact investments to meet  In addition, our TRP underpin our approach to compensation 
different client interests, values, risk profiles, return expectations  by establishing a compensation framework that balances sus-
and regional needs. tainable performance and appropriate risk-taking with a focus 
on conduct and sound risk management practices. This includes 
providing employees with pay that is fair, reflecting equal treat-
ment of employees.
3
Clients Vendors
We apply an environmental and social risk policy framework to all  Our firm-wide Responsible Supply Chain Standard Management 
our activities. This helps us identify and manage potential adverse  (RSCM) framework is based on identifying, assessing and mon-
impacts to the environment and to human rights, as well as the  itoring vendor practices in the areas of human and labor rights, 
associated business or investment risks affecting our clients and  the environment, health and safety and anticorruption.
us. We have set standards in product development, investments, 
financing and for supply chain management decisions. We have  We aim to reduce negative environmental and social effects 
identified certain controversial activities we will not engage in,   of the goods and services UBS purchases and we engage with 
or will only engage in under stringent criteria. As part of this pro- vendors to promote responsible practices. We have embedded 
cess, we engage with clients and suppliers to better understand  environmental and social (incl. human rights) standards into  
their processes and policies and to explore how any environmen- our sourcing and procurement activities and to bind our ven-
tal and social risks may be mitigated. dors to our standards. Our RSCM standard defines our expecta-
tions towards vendors and their subcontractors regarding legal  
This means we apply checks beyond our clients on all relevant  compliance, environmental protection, avoidance of child and 
counterparties in a transaction. We may ask additional ques- forced labor, nondiscrimination, remuneration, hours of work, 
tions to clarify the origin or the final use of the goods and we  freedom of association, humane treatment, health and safety 
may approve or decline. We also commit to perform enhanced  and anticorruption issues.
due diligence during periodic reviews or with separate deep-dive 
reviews in between transactions. We’re committed to continuous improvements – and to 
transparency 
Our  Asset  Management  (AM)  division  applies  a  responsible  We engage with our key stakeholders and other pertinent soci-
investment approach, which guides processes in integrating envi- etal groups, including civil society organizations, seeking out 
ronmental, social (including human rights) and governance fac- their input and insight, as it helps us consider our approach  
tors in investment decisions. It also regards stewardship, in the  to, and understanding of, societal issues and concerns. Annually, 
form of proxy voting and engagement, as an integral part of  we undertake a review of this Statement and update it with any 
our fiduciary duty. AM has set expectations on management of  changes deemed necessary. 
investee companies regarding human capital management and 
human rights which guide its stewardship activities. These expec- We’re committed to reporting on the focus areas of this state-
tations are included in AM’s annual stewardship report.  ment. To enable our stakeholder groups to review our progress 
we provide transparency on our commitments and actions on 
www.ubs.com/gri.
Please contact us for any concerns, feedback, comments by sending 
an email to cr@ubs.com.
© UBS 2021. The key symbol and UBS are among the registered and unregistered trademarks of UBS. All rights reserved.