
Climate Report 2021
Following the recommendations of the TCFD
Sustainability Report 2021 | What 
Taking action on a net-zero future – our 
climate report 
From words to action  We  also  took  part  in  the  Global  Association  of  Risk 
Professionals  (GARP)  Climate  Risk  questionnaire  and  were 
2021 marked a pivotal year in climate pledges and commitments  recognized as one of the firms currently providing leading practice 
by companies and governments. The global community voiced a  in climate risk management.  
clear  need  for  focused  action  and  solutions.  Notably,  the 
Why does UBS see climate change as a 
mobilization of finance for the low-carbon transition in order to 
reach net-zero emissions by no later than 2050 and achieve the  strategic topic? Aside from it being the 
Paris goal of limiting global warming to 1.5°C above pre-industrial 
right thing to do for the planet, we believe 
levels. 
The impacts of climate change are already upon us. This is  it is the right thing to do for our business.  
highlighted by the sixth report by the Intergovernmental Panel for 
Climate Change (the IPCC). We have growing evidence that  Protecting our clients’ assets and those of our firm from the 
human activity is a significant contributor to increasing global  devastating effects of climate change, while also seizing the 
temperature  averages.  These,  in  turn,  can  intensify  extreme  opportunities  from  the  low-carbon  transition,  is  vital  to 
weather events such as heatwaves, droughts and cyclones. The  maintaining our leading approach on climate. 
Glasgow  Climate  Pact  at  the  2021  United  Nations  Climate  UBS became a founding member of both the Net Zero Asset 
Change Conference (COP 26) acknowledged that unless we act  Managers initiative (NZAMi) in 2020 and the Net-Zero Banking 
urgently, global temperatures will rise above the 1.5°C limit, and  Alliance  (NZBA)  in  2021.  We  also  published  our  firm’s 
by 2100, the planet will be warmer than at any other time in  commitment to net zero in April 2021, reinforcing our dedication 
human history.  to climate action.  
We have a window of opportunity to turn things around. As a  In the following pages, we highlight the key signposts on the 
leading global bank, we recognize our unique position and ability  journey toward our net-zero goal, including steps we’re already 
to  contribute  to  that  turnaround  by  mobilizing  capital  and  taking, as well as our ambitions for the future.  
supporting our clients, employees, investors and society in the 
The time to move from words to action 
transition to a net-zero economy. 
In 2021, UBS once again received external recognition for our  is now. 
climate  action  by  maintaining  the  leading  score  across  the 
environmental dimension of the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices. 
Out of nearly 12,000 companies ranked by 
the global environmental non-profit CDP, 
we were one of only 200 that were  
A-listed for environmental transparency
and action to cut emissions, mitigate
climate risks and develop the low-carbon
economy.
23 6 
Sustainability Report 2021 | What 
Taking action on a net-zero future – our  Our climate journey – 15 years of continuous strategic development 
climate report 
2006 Launched our ﬁ rst climate strategy, focused on own emissions.
From words to action  We  also  took  part  in  the  Global  Association  of  Risk 
Professionals  (GARP)  Climate  Risk  questionnaire  and  were  2012 Expanded our climate strategy to also include risk management, investments, ﬁ nancing and research.
2021 marked a pivotal year in climate pledges and commitments  recognized as one of the firms currently providing leading practice 
by companies and governments. The global community voiced a  in climate risk management.  
clear  need  for  focused  action  and  solutions.  Notably,  the 
Why does UBS see climate change as a 
mobilization of finance for the low-carbon transition in order to  2013 Launched UBS Clean Energy Infrastructure Switzerland.
reach net-zero emissions by no later than 2050 and achieve the  strategic topic? Aside from it being the 
Paris goal of limiting global warming to 1.5°C above pre-industrial 
right thing to do for the planet, we believe 
levels. 
The impacts of climate change are already upon us. This is  it is the right thing to do for our business.  
2014 Carried out the ﬁ rst stress test to assess UBS’s vulnerability to climate change.
highlighted by the sixth report by the Intergovernmental Panel for 
Climate Change (the IPCC). We have growing evidence that  Protecting our clients’ assets and those of our firm from the 
human activity is a significant contributor to increasing global  devastating effects of climate change, while also seizing the 
temperature  averages.  These,  in  turn,  can  intensify  extreme  opportunities  from  the  low-carbon  transition,  is  vital  to 
weather events such as heatwaves, droughts and cyclones. The  maintaining our leading approach on climate.  2015 Joined the RE100 global initiative and committed to using 100% renewable electricity by 2020.
Glasgow  Climate  Pact  at  the  2021  United  Nations  Climate  UBS became a founding member of both the Net Zero Asset 
Change Conference (COP 26) acknowledged that unless we act  Managers initiative (NZAMi) in 2020 and the Net-Zero Banking 
urgently, global temperatures will rise above the 1.5°C limit, and  Alliance  (NZBA)  in  2021.  We  also  published  our  firm’s 
by 2100, the planet will be warmer than at any other time in  commitment to net zero in April 2021, reinforcing our dedication 
2016 Became a member of the newly established Financial Stability Board (FSB) Task Force on
human history.  to climate action.  
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (the TCFD).
We have a window of opportunity to turn things around. As a  In the following pages, we highlight the key signposts on the 
leading global bank, we recognize our unique position and ability  journey toward our net-zero goal, including steps we’re already 
to  contribute  to  that  turnaround  by  mobilizing  capital  and  taking, as well as our ambitions for the future.  
supporting our clients, employees, investors and society in the  2017 Launched our Climate Aware strategy and engagement strategy around climate-related topics.
The time to move from words to action 
transition to a net-zero economy.  Commenced applying TCFD recommendations to UBS‘s climate disclosures. 
In 2021, UBS once again received external recognition for our  is now. 
climate  action  by  maintaining  the  leading  score  across  the 
environmental dimension of the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices. 
2018 Embedded the oversight role of the Corporate Culture and Responsibility Committee (the CCRC)
Out of nearly 12,000 companies ranked by  of the Board of Directors (the BoD) regarding UBS‘s climate strategy in the Organization Regulations
of UBS Group AG. First joint meeting of the BoD CCRC and Risk committee on climate-related risks. 
the global environmental non-profit CDP, 
we were one of only 200 that were   2019 Embedded climate risk in our risk taxonomy and our operational risk appetite statement.
A-listed for environmental transparency Applied the Paris Agreement Capital Transition Assessment (PACTA) to test the alignment of
corporate lending portfolios with Paris Agreement benchmarks.
and action to cut emissions, mitigate
climate risks and develop the low-carbon 2020 Developed and piloted a novel transition risk heatmap methodology. Became a founding signatory
economy. of the Net Zero Asset Managers initiative.
2021 Committed to net zero by 2050. Became a founding member of the Net-Zero Banking 
Alliance (NZBA) and the Glasgow Financial Alliance for Net Zero (GFANZ).
36  337  
Sustainability Report 2021 | What 
Key climate-related activities – 2021 at a glance 
Key thematic areas  Progress in 2021 
Governance and strategy  – Appointed the Group Executive Board (the GEB) lead for sustainability and impact to steer our efforts on
sustainability (including climate).
– Oversaw climate strategy and activities at the highest level of our firm.
– Assigned environmental, social and governance (ESG-)related goals for all GEB members.
– Became founding member of the NZBA and Glasgow Financial Alliance for Net Zero (GFANZ).
Risk management  – Further developed a transition risk heatmap methodology and introduced a novel physical risk heatmap to inform
our climate risk management.
– Launched an engagement program focused on 46 companies from high-carbon intensity sectors and engaged 
with a total of 140 companies across all sectors.
– Supported 70 climate-related resolutions.
– Developed a UBS climate materiality assessment that maps out material climate-related risks and opportunities.
Metrics and targets  – Set decarbonization targets for 2030 for financing of fossil fuels, power generation and real estate sectors.
– Reduced own greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 92% against 2004 baseline.
– Disclosed net-zero 2030 interim targets for Asset Management.
– Further aligned climate-related risk metrics with the updated recommendations by the Task Force on Climate-
related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) (for carbon-related assets).
External recognition  – Awarded top ratings and rankings by industry experts:
− CDP: Climate A List;
− Dow Jones Sustainability Index: leading in the environmental dimension;
− GARP: providing leading practice in climate risk management.
43 8 
Sustainability Report 2021 | What   
Key climate-related activities – 2021 at a glance  Climate governance   Climate strategy 
Key thematic areas  Progress in 2021  Embedding our approach to climate  We launched our first climate strategy 15 years ago. In the 2010s, 
The Corporate Culture and Responsibility Committee (the CCRC)  we  expanded  our  focus  beyond  our  own  operations,  to 
Governance and strategy  – Appointed the Group Executive Board (the GEB) lead for sustainability and impact to steer our efforts on
of UBS Group AG’s Board of Directors (the BoD) oversees UBS’s  encompass the protection of our assets and those of our clients, 
sustainability (including climate).
– Oversaw climate strategy and activities at the highest level of our firm. climate strategy. This is set by our firm’s Group Executive Board  together  with  the  mobilization  of  capital  to  tackle  climate 
– Assigned environmental, social and governance (ESG-)related goals for all GEB members. (the GEB), and includes our appetite for climate-related risks. In  concerns. We refined our strategy by including, and disclosing, a 
– Became founding member of the NZBA and Glasgow Financial Alliance for Net Zero (GFANZ).
its six annual meetings, the CCRC regularly reviews the GEB’s  growing number of climate-related metrics. As we move into the 
Risk management  – Further developed a transition risk heatmap methodology and introduced a novel physical risk heatmap to inform activities in executing UBS’s climate strategy and, jointly with the  2020s, we are taking steps to advance further. 
our climate risk management.
BoD’s  Risk  Committee,  evaluates  the  progress  of  the  firm’s  Currently, no bank can perfectly quantify its climate risks. 
– Launched an engagement program focused on 46 companies from high-carbon intensity sectors and engaged 
climate risk program.  Emissions figures are a blend of official data, expert views and 
with a total of 140 companies across all sectors.
– Supported 70 climate-related resolutions. As part of its annual approval of UBS’s sustainability and  information shared between organizations. But we aim to lead by 
– Developed a UBS climate materiality assessment that maps out material climate-related risks and opportunities. impact objectives, the CCRC considers our firm’s climate-related  example  –  by  continuously  developing  and  refining  our 
Metrics and targets  – Set decarbonization targets for 2030 for financing of fossil fuels, power generation and real estate sectors. objectives, as set by the GEB. The committee also reviews the  sustainable products and services, by focusing on climate risks in 
– Reduced own greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 92% against 2004 baseline. alignment of our climate disclosures with the recommendations  our company-wide risk management framework and operations, 
– Disclosed net-zero 2030 interim targets for Asset Management. of the TCFD. We manage these annual plans and goals through  and  by  sharing  best  practice  with  stakeholders,  such  as 
– Further aligned climate-related risk metrics with the updated recommendations by the Task Force on Climate-
our ISO 14001-certified environmental management system (the  authorities, central banks, policymakers, academia and peers. 
related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) (for carbon-related assets).
EMS) and management accountabilities across UBS Group AG. 
External recognition  – Awarded top ratings and rankings by industry experts:
The  EMS  helps  us  reduce  environmental  risks,  seize  market  Strengthening our commitment 
− CDP: Climate A List;
− Dow Jones Sustainability Index: leading in the environmental dimension; opportunities and continually improve our environmental, climate  In April 2021, we published our ambition 
− GARP: providing leading practice in climate risk management. and resource-efficiency performance. 
to reach net-zero GHG emissions across 
In 2021, we established a net-zero task 
our entire operations by 2050 (scope 1, 2 
force to help ensure we become a net-zero 
and 3 emissions). We committed to 
firm by 2050.  
developing a comprehensive and 
The GEB lead for sustainability and impact chairs the task force. 
ambitious climate roadmap.  
Senior stakeholders from across our business attend the task 
force’s monthly meetings, including senior leaders from risk and  While we recognize the critical relevance of climate action, we 
finance.  also know the world’s problems extend further, encompassing 
› Refer to ”Governance on sustainability” in the “How” section of  many challenging issues such as inequality, poverty or access to 
this report  clean water, as reflected by the UN Sustainable Development 
Goals (the SDGs).  
› Refer to the UBS Sustainability Report 2021 for more details on 
UBS’s sustainability commitments and activities 
UBS sustainability and climate governance  
Board of Directors (BoD)
BoD Risk Committee BoD Corporate Culture & Responsibility Committee
Group Executive Board (GEB)
Group Chief Risk Ofﬁ cer GEB lead for sustainability and impact
dit dit
u u
nal a nal a
Exter Inter Chief Risk Ofﬁ cer for Sustainability Group Chief Sustainability Ofﬁ cer Head Social Impact
Climate Risk Program Sustainable Finance Group Sustainability Advisory Group
Net-zero task force
Global Wealth Personal & Asset Investment Group
Management Corporate Banking Management Bank Functions
 
38  359  
Sustainability Report 2021 | What 
Our climate roadmap 
In 2021, we extended our long-standing climate strategy with a commitment to reach net zero resulting from 
all aspects (scopes 1, 2 and 3) of our business by 2050. 
2020 Founding member of the Net Zero Asset Managers initiative
2021 Commitment to net zero by 2050 and founding member 
of the Net-Zero Banking Alliance (NZBA) and 
the Glasgow Financial Alliance for Net Zero (GFANZ)
by 2025 Addressing our own emissions
– Achieve net-zero scope 1 and 2 emissions
– Reduce our own energy consumption by 15% from 2020 levels
– Offset historical emissions from own operations back to 2000
by 2030 Addressing the emissions of our business activities (from 2020 levels)
– Reduce absolute ﬁ nanced emissions associated with UBS loans to
fossil fuel companies by 71%
– Reduce emissions intensity associated with UBS loans to
power generation companies by 49%
– Reduce emissions intensity of UBS’s commercial real estate
lending portfolio by 44%
– Reduce emissions intensity of UBS’s residential real estate
lending portfolio by 42%
by 2035 Addressing our supply chain
– Aim for net-zero GHG emissions by our key vendors
by 2050 Net zero across all our activities (scope 1, 2, 3)
64 0 
Sustainability Report 2021 | What   
Our climate roadmap  Our four strategic pillars  3. Reducing our climate impact 
In 2021, we extended our long-standing climate strategy with a commitment to reach net zero resulting from  We are committed to achieving net-zero emissions in our own 
Our climate strategy covers two main 
all aspects (scopes 1, 2 and 3) of our business by 2050.  operations (scopes 1 and 2) by 2025. We will do this by replacing 
areas: managing climate-related  fossil fuel heating systems, maintaining our 100% renewable 
electricity coverage and investing in credible carbon removal 
financial risks, and taking action on 
2020 Founding member of the Net Zero Asset Managers initiative projects  (including  negative  emissions  technology).  We  are 
a net-zero future.  compensating our historical scopes 1 and 2 emissions back to the 
year 2000 and have sourced credible and clear carbon offsets and 
Underpinning these two main areas are four strategic pillars.  investments  in  nature-based  solutions.  Furthermore,  we  are 
› Refer to the diagram below for a visual description of the two  currently  working  to  understand  and  quantify  the  scope 3 
2021 Commitment to net zero by 2050 and founding member  main areas and four strategic pillars of our climate strategy  emissions in our supply chain. We are engaging with our key 
of the Net-Zero Banking Alliance (NZBA) and  vendors on targeting net zero by 2035.1 
the Glasgow Financial Alliance for Net Zero (GFANZ) 1. Protecting our clients’ assets  Many  of  our  climate  impacts  are  indirect,  arising  from 
As a global financial institution, it is our responsibility to help  emissions  in  our  financing,  lending  and  assets  under 
clients navigate through the challenges of the transition to a low- management. As such, we plan to align these activities toward 
carbon economy. We help our clients assess, manage and protect  our net-zero goal. As set out in this report, we have already 
their  assets  from  climate-related  risks  by  offering  innovative  started to quantify our indirect climate impacts, which will enable 
by 2025 Addressing our own emissions
products and services in investment, financing and research.   us to improve our performance in this area. 
– Achieve net-zero scope 1 and 2 emissions We work collaboratively across our industry and with our 
clients, ensuring they have access to best practice, robust science- 4. Mobilizing capital 
– Reduce our own energy consumption by 15% from 2020 levels
based approaches, standardized methodologies, and quality data 
– Offset historical emissions from own operations back to 2000 We mobilize private and institutional 
for measuring and mitigating climate risks. Our activities include 
engaging on climate topics with the companies we invest in. For  capital through investments that help the 
example,  our  Asset  Management  business  division  has 
world mitigate and adapt to climate 
implemented an engagement program with 46 companies from 
by 2030 Addressing the emissions of our business activities (from 2020 levels) the following sectors: oil and gas, electric and other utilities,  change. 
metals  and  mining,  construction  materials,  chemicals,  and 
– Reduce absolute ﬁ nanced emissions associated with UBS loans to
automotive. During 2021, we also supported 70 climate-related  We were the first major global financial institution to have 
fossil fuel companies by 71%
resolutions.  made sustainable investments the preferred solution for our 
– Reduce emissions intensity associated with UBS loans to private clients wishing to invest globally.  We also support our goal 
power generation companies by 49% 2. Protecting our own assets  of mobilizing capital as a lender and as an arranger, underwriter 
We seek to protect our assets by limiting our risk appetite for  and / or structurer of securities. For corporate clients, we support 
– Reduce emissions intensity of UBS’s commercial real estate
carbon-related  assets.  We  use  scenario-based  stress-testing  the issuance of green, social, sustainability and sustainability-
lending portfolio by 44%
approaches  and  other  forward-looking  portfolio  analyses  to  linked bonds – as well as the raising of capital in international 
– Reduce emissions intensity of UBS’s residential real estate estimate  our  vulnerability  to  climate-related  risks.  As  of  capital markets – in line with recognized market guidelines, such 
lending portfolio by 42% 31 December 2021, we had reduced our lending exposure to  as the ICMA Green Bond Principles and, in relation to green and 
carbon-related assets to 9.9% (USD 45.6 billion) of our total  sustainable loans, the Loan Market Association Sustainability 
customer lending exposure. This is down from 10.4% at the end  Principles.  In  2021,  we  began  offering  borrowers  Green 
of 2020 and 10.7% at the end of 2019.   Mortgages via our key4 platform, the first Swiss real estate 
Carbon-related assets are defined as significant concentrations  platform for investment properties that promotes sustainable 
by 2035 Addressing our supply chain
of credit exposure to assets tied to the four non-financial groups  mortgages.  
– Aim for net-zero GHG emissions by our key vendors as defined by the TCFD (using Global Industry Classification  Detailed data accounting of our financed emissions helps us to 
Standard,  GICS).  These  four  groups  are  (i)  energy;  (ii)  identify climate-related opportunities requiring capital, and to 
transportation; (iii) materials and buildings; and (iv) agriculture,  improve and tailor our sustainable product range for clients. 
food and forest products. Recognizing that the term carbon- Additionally, such insights help UBS, our partners and our clients 
related assets is currently not well defined, the TCFD encourages  in a number of ways. For instance, they reduce the risk of stranded 
by 2050 Net zero across all our activities (scope 1, 2, 3)
banks to use a consistent definition to support comparability. We  assets.  
continue  to  collaborate  with  the  industry  to  drive  further  › Refer to ”What we do for our clients,” ”Reducing our 
consistency.  environmental footprint” and Appendix 4 to this report for more 
information about key activities pertaining to the four strategic 
pillars 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11  A GHG key vendor is a top GHG scope 3 emitter relative to UBS’s overall scope 3 supply chain emissions and with whom UBS has a long-term ongoing relationship. Together our GHG key vendors contribute to a 
significant portion of UBS’s estimated supply chain scope 3 emissions. 
40  471  
Governance
Strategy
Managing climate-related ﬁ nancial risks Acting on a low-carbon future
Protecting our Protecting our Reducing our Mobilizing capital
clients’ assets own assets climate impact  
– managing climate- related  – limiting our risk appetite  – sourcing 100% of our  – from private and
risks and opportunities  for carbon-related assets  electricity consumption  institutional clients
through our innovative  – estimating our ﬁ rm’s  from renewable sources – toward the orderly
products and services in  vulnerability to climate  – responsible supply chain  transition to a
investment, ﬁ nancing  risks management low-carbon economy
and research
Risks and opportunities
Metrics and targets
8 
 
Our strategic resilience to climate change  Methodology for assessing climate risks 
At UBS climate risks can arise either from changing climate 
Governance
UBS wants to be part of the solution to climate change while  conditions (physical risks) or from efforts to mitigate climate 
protecting our clients’ and our own assets. To do so, we embed  change (transition risks). Physical and transition risks contribute to 
climate  change  considerations  in our  strategic  planning  and  a structural change across economies and consequently can affect 
Strategy
processes. We observe the materiality of climate change impacts  banks and the financial sector through financial and non-financial 
through  a  “double-materiality“-lens:  (1)  how  UBS  can  best  impacts.  
contribute to the transition to a net-zero world; and (2) how  UBS  takes  a  materiality-driven  approach  to  assessing  the 
Managing climate-related ﬁ nancial risks Acting on a low-carbon future climate change can impact UBS and its strategy, business planning  potential impacts of climate risks, while considering the time 
and processes.  horizon of these impacts. UBS defines short term as less than 
three years, medium term as three to ten years and long term as 
Protecting our Protecting our Reducing our Mobilizing capital
To determine the materiality of key drivers 
clients’ assets own assets climate impact   beyond ten years. For selected climate risk assessments, we use a 
– managing climate- related  – limiting our risk appetite  – sourcing 100% of our  – from private and of climate risks and opportunities, such as  time horizon of up to 2050 for transition risk and up to 2100 for 
risks and opportunities  for carbon-related assets  electricity consumption  institutional clients both  transition  and  physical  risk.  According  to  current 
through our innovative  – estimating our ﬁ rm’s  from renewable sources – toward the orderly policy and regulatory developments, or  understanding  of  the  potential  impacts  of  climate  change, 
products and services in  vulnerability to climate  – responsible supply chain  transition to a
climate investment opportunities, we have  physical risks identified today are most commonly expected to 
investment, ﬁ nancing  risks management low-carbon economy
materialize in the long term while transition risks can materialize 
and research developed a UBS materiality assessment 
in short-, medium- and long-term time horizons.  
for climate risks and opportunities.  
On an annual basis the sustainability and 
Our goal is to identify the time horizon and potential impact 
climate risk (SCR) unit coordinate a 
Risks and opportunities that these drivers may have on a bank’s business strategy (if 
materialized). We will further refine this approach over time, by  systematic materiality assessment of risks 
reflecting  new  client  data,  climate  scenario  and  business  in accordance with the ISO 14001 
Metrics and targets projections and enhanced methodologies to quantify risks and 
standard.  
opportunities. 
 
The assessment covers all business divisions, as well as the 
Time horizons for climate assessments  products and services within them, to assess if and where products 
and  services  may  have  an  impact  on  climate  (and  /  or  the 
Short-term time horizon  0–3 years 
environment) and / or pose a risk (e.g., financial, reputational, etc.) 
to UBS (rated on severity and frequency, where frequent and / or 
Medium-term time horizon  3–10 years 
severe  sustainability  or  climate  risks  are  defined  as  having  a 
substantive impact). 
Long-term time horizon  Beyond 10 years 
We prioritize risks and opportunities by focusing on the impact 
 
of climate change and on our exposure to the risk, considering 
factors such as the product, service, client base, etc. Each business 
division  assesses  and  rates  the  potential  for  risks  and  /  or 
opportunities  arising  in  the  products  and  services  offered 
according to a step-by-step procedure of evaluation and ranking, 
review and approval, and documentation. Items rated as having a 
substantive impact are further referred to management.  
For the climate risk materiality assessment, we applied two 
different criteria: We rated (i) potential financial risk to UBS (direct 
and indirect impact), and (ii) climate impact through UBS activity 
based on internal methodology, using as reference scientific and 
regulatory publications on climate risk. We subsequently added 
up  these  assessments  to  arrive  at  the  overall  materiality 
assessment on a relative basis. 
493  
Sustainability Report 2021 | What 
Transition risks  Physical risks 
1. Policy and regulatory: As a global financial services firm 1. Acute: Impacts from extreme weather events may affect the
active in wealth management, asset management, investment value of physical assets that UBS owns and finances. We
banking,  and  the  provision  of  services  to  corporate  and address the risks to our own physical assets through our
institutional clients, our firm can be affected directly and comprehensive  business  continuity  planning  and  physical
indirectly  by  new  carbon  pricing  regulation  and  energy climate risk identification process.
transition policies. These measures can be designed to both 2. Chronic: Impacts from incremental climate change may affect
constrain the impacts of climate change and / or promote an the value of physical assets that UBS owns and finances.
adaptive response to climate change impacts. They could Incremental changes in climate (e.g., rising temperatures and
impact  UBS’s  own  operations,  as  well  as  the  business changes in precipitation patterns) can exacerbate extreme
operations of our corporate clients given that such clients rely events, making them more frequent and severe, which in turn
on the bank to finance their activities across a range of sectors.  affects economic output and productivity. Such events could
We  routinely  assess  the  impact  of  current  and  emerging reduce the value of properties held as collateral. We see these
regulation, either directly affecting our operations or indirectly potential risks emerging in the long term.
affecting those sectors where we have clients. Assessments
and gap analysis exercises are conducted several times a year While we put the necessary focus on identifying, assessing and 
following a standardized identification process defined by the managing climate-related risks, the transition to net zero opens 
climate risk program. Additionally, regulatory developments new  opportunities  as  well.  Our  approach  to  capturing  and 
are assessed for impacts via quarterly monitoring. We see the expanding such opportunities is elaborated below. 
below potential risks emerging in the short term. › Refer to “Climate scenario analysis” below for more details on
2. Technological change: UBS, together with corporate clients how UBS performs scenario analyses and considers time 
that rely on the bank to finance their activities in a range of horizons
sectors, is both directly and indirectly exposed to technological
changes. These changes, such as the rise of electric vehicle /
battery  technologies  in  the  automotive  sector  or  energy
storage technology advancement impacts on the power utility
sectors,  are  analyzed  by  UBS  through  scenario  analysis
approaches. We see these potential risks emerging in the short
to medium term.
3. Reputation: Climate-related methodologies and standards
will continue to change in the coming years. Our reputation
may be adversely affected if our climate-related actions and
methods are not perceived as meeting existing or future
industry standards and best practice. Examples of this would
be allegations related to greenwashing or inadequate action
on climate change. Increased reputational risks could lead to
loss of business and may result in changes in regulations, which 
in turn could impact UBS’s business model. We see these
potential risks emerging in the short term.
4. Market and sentiment: We have made protecting our clients’ 
assets a strategic pillar in our firm’s climate approach. Amid a
growing demand for climate-focused products and services,
UBS needs to actively respond to market changes driven by the
low-carbon transition and clients’ interest in managing climate-
related  risks.  We  address  this  potential  risk  through  our
comprehensive sustainability and climate-focused product and
service offering. We see the potential risks arising from a failure 
to do so in the short term.
1404  
Sustainability Report 2021 | What   
Transition risks  Physical risks  Methodology for assessing climate opportunities  Climate-related client opportunities 
1. Policy and regulatory: As a global financial services firm 1. Acute: Impacts from extreme weather events may affect the The transition to a low-carbon world will be a significant catalyst 
Climate change has become integral to the 
active in wealth management, asset management, investment value of physical assets that UBS owns and finances. We for the overall allocation of capital. As a financial service provider 
banking,  and  the  provision  of  services  to  corporate  and address the risks to our own physical assets through our way we conduct business at UBS.  UBS is at the center of this re-direction. As such, it is well placed 
institutional clients, our firm can be affected directly and comprehensive  business  continuity  planning  and  physical to develop opportunities for offering innovative products and 
indirectly  by  new  carbon  pricing  regulation  and  energy climate risk identification process. Our materiality assessment starts with an in-depth analysis of  services to our client base.  
transition policies. These measures can be designed to both 2. Chronic: Impacts from incremental climate change may affect the various products and services directly related to climate in our  We have categorized the various initiatives and opportunities 
constrain the impacts of climate change and / or promote an the value of physical assets that UBS owns and finances. business  divisions  (Global  Wealth  Management,  Personal  &  identified within the business divisions into six groups:  
adaptive response to climate change impacts. They could Incremental changes in climate (e.g., rising temperatures and Corporate  Banking,  Asset  Management,  and  the  Investment  1. Advice on strategic climate opportunities: This includes 
impact  UBS’s  own  operations,  as  well  as  the  business changes in precipitation patterns) can exacerbate extreme Bank). In addition, a cross-divisional team of experts has identified  advice to clients on strategic opportunities related to client 
operations of our corporate clients given that such clients rely events, making them more frequent and severe, which in turn those  areas  where  the  business  divisions  are  planning  new  investment opportunities, market sentiment and transactions 
on the bank to finance their activities across a range of sectors.  affects economic output and productivity. Such events could products and services with a direct link to climate.   insights, as well as engaging with corporates on environmental 
We  routinely  assess  the  impact  of  current  and  emerging reduce the value of properties held as collateral. We see these The definitions of the time horizons are described above. A  solutions.  
regulation, either directly affecting our operations or indirectly potential risks emerging in the long term. product is considered to have “a direct link to climate change” if  2. Carbon  offsets:  This  includes  supporting  our  clients  on 
affecting those sectors where we have clients. Assessments it is intended to primarily contribute to one or more of the  assessing and offsetting the overall carbon footprints of their 
and gap analysis exercises are conducted several times a year While we put the necessary focus on identifying, assessing and  identified impact areas: climate mitigation, climate adaptation or  investment portfolios. This can include digital solutions to 
following a standardized identification process defined by the managing climate-related risks, the transition to net zero opens  climate transition.   assess carbon footprints for both private and institutional 
climate risk program. Additionally, regulatory developments new  opportunities  as  well.  Our  approach  to  capturing  and  Having identified the overall list of opportunities, we then  investment clients. Services can also include tools for assessing 
are assessed for impacts via quarterly monitoring. We see the expanding such opportunities is elaborated below.  classified them according to six categories recognized as major  and  offsetting  carbon  footprints  for  corporate  clients, 
below potential risks emerging in the short term. › Refer to “Climate scenario analysis” below for more details on climate-related opportunities for the financial sector, based on  leveraging expertise in carbon-offsetting markets.  
2. Technological change: UBS, together with corporate clients how UBS performs scenario analyses and considers time  insights from various relevant studies and publications. Using this  3. Climate  investment  products:  This  includes  further 
that rely on the bank to finance their activities in a range of horizons list, we assessed the materiality according to the definition of the  expanding  our  wide  range  of  climate-focused  investment 
sectors, is both directly and indirectly exposed to technological Global Reporting Initiative (the GRI). According to the GRI a topic  products for our private and institutional clients. For example, 
changes. These changes, such as the rise of electric vehicle / is material if it has “a direct or indirect impact on an organization’s  we may use our experience in offering indexed solutions with 
battery  technologies  in  the  automotive  sector  or  energy ability to create, preserve or erode economic, environmental and  a customized profile to develop climate-focused index-linked 
storage technology advancement impacts on the power utility social value for itself, its stakeholders and society at large.”  products. Non-traditional asset classes (e.g., hedge funds) may 
sectors,  are  analyzed  by  UBS  through  scenario  analysis In the assessment matrix on the following page, the materiality  focus  on  specific  climate  investments  relating  to  climate 
approaches. We see these potential risks emerging in the short of a given initiative combines both its business and its societal  transition or climate adaptation.  
to medium term. impact. We sounded and assessed the various expert inputs to  4. Climate investment advice: This includes opportunities to 
3. Reputation: Climate-related methodologies and standards create a standardized methodology for the overall materiality  support our clients in directing capital to support climate goals, 
will continue to change in the coming years. Our reputation outcome  of  the  different  initiatives.  These  assessments  are  for example through education on sustainable finance, or the 
may be adversely affected if our climate-related actions and aggregated according to the main categories and presented on  provision of meaningful climate metrics that can be used in 
methods are not perceived as meeting existing or future the following page.     supporting the goals of individual investors. In a broader sense 
industry standards and best practice. Examples of this would For the assessment, we used three different criteria: (i) overall  this would also include products that highlight the effects of 
be allegations related to greenwashing or inadequate action revenue opportunities; (ii) strategic relevance of the opportunity  climate change topics on investment opportunities and risks.  
on climate change. Increased reputational risks could lead to for  the  business  division; and  (iii) potential  impact  that  the  5. Facilitating climate-financing opportunities: This includes 
loss of business and may result in changes in regulations, which  opportunity can have on society. We subsequently added these  all  opportunities  within  the  bank  to  support  clients,  in 
in turn could impact UBS’s business model. We see these assessments  together  to  arrive  at  the  overall  materiality  particular our corporate clients, with advice and structuring of 
potential risks emerging in the short term. assessment on a relative basis.   debt related to climate financing. This could for example be 
4. Market and sentiment: We have made protecting our clients’  › For more information on the GRI’s definition of materiality refer  green, sustainability-linked and transition bonds. Additional 
assets a strategic pillar in our firm’s climate approach. Amid a to gglloobbaallrreeppoorrttiinngg..oorrgg  opportunities  may  encompass  advising  and  underwriting 
growing demand for climate-focused products and services, transactions (e.g., IPOs, follow-ons or private placements) for 
UBS needs to actively respond to market changes driven by the clients with products and services that are focused on climate 
low-carbon transition and clients’ interest in managing climate- innovations.   
related  risks.  We  address  this  potential  risk  through  our 6. Financing climate opportunities: This includes financing 
comprehensive sustainability and climate-focused product and opportunities  for  green  projects  and  infrastructure  (e.g., 
service offering. We see the potential risks arising from a failure  renewable  energy)  including  the  opportunity  to  generate 
to do so in the short term. positive externalities on other SDGs. Products and services that 
support our clients in lowering the carbon intensity of their real 
estate exposure also fall within this category.  
 
 
44  1415  
UBS climate materiality assessment – risks and opportunities
Climate investment products
Policy and regulatory
h
g
Hi Technological change
Reputation
Facilitating climate-
ct) ﬁnancing opportunities
a
p
m
S (i Advice on
UB strategic climate Financing climate opportunities
o  opportunities
ortunity t Moderate
p
o
k /  Carbon offsets
s
al ri Market and sentiment
nti
e
ot Chronic physical risks
P
Acute physical risks
Climate investment advice
w
o
L
Short-term Medium-term Long-term
Time horizon
Transition risks1 Climate-related opportunities 
Policy and regulatory Advice on strategic climate opportunities
–  Climate-related litigation –  Mergers and acquisitions
–  Carbon-pricing and pollution control regulation –  Strategic insights / Data Lab / Evidence Lab
–  Energy transition policies –  Climate solutions and advice
Technological change Carbon oﬀsets
–  Shi to clean technologies –  Carbon footprint management 
–  Shi to energy-efﬁcient technologies
Climate investment products
Reputation –  Climate-focused strategies
–  Greenwashing allegations –  Climate transition solutions
–  Environmental / climate action
Climate investment advice
Market and sentiment –  Advice on directing capital
–  Changes in consumer preferences –  Climate-related information
    (products and services) –  Portfolio transparency
–  Changes in investor sentiment (assets) –  Industry collaborations 
–  Climate-focused strategies
Facilitating climate-ﬁnancing opportunities
Physical risks1 –  Debt and loan arranging, underwriting,
structuring and ﬁnancing
Acute  –  Alternative structuring
–  Extreme weather events: tropical –  Equity capital markets
cyclones / typhoons, ﬂoods, winter storms, –  Private ﬁnancing markets
heat waves, droughts, wildﬁres, hailstorms  –  Acquisition ﬁnancing
Chronic Financing climate opportunities
–  Droughts –  Real estate ﬁnancing
–  Sea level rise –  Project ﬁnancing
–  Changes in precipitation
–  Landslides
1 Risk categories have been adopted from deﬁnitions by the NGFS and the TCFD.
12 
 
Key climate-related memberships and commitments (as of 31 December 2021) 
 
Initiative  UBS role / activity  Key outcome of initiative in 2021  UBS contribution / commitment 
Task Force on  Member of the TCFD,  Updated TCFD recommendations, including  –  Contributed to the updating of the TCFD 
Climate-related  which includes 32  guidance on disclosing metrics, targets,  recommendations. 
Financial Disclosure  individuals from  transition plans, and portfolio alignment 
(TCFD)  financial and non- metrics. 
financial companies. 
UN Environment  Participant in in the  Further developed approaches to  –  Participated in a year-long engagement, 
Programme Finance  UNEP FI’s second  help banks assess and disclose their exposures  wherein we, along with other participating 
Initiative (UNEP FI)  TCFD banking  to climate-related risks and opportunities,  banks, worked together with climate risk 
program, which  as envisioned by the TCFD.  experts to improve financial assessments of 
includes 39 global  climate-transition risks. 
financial institutions 
from six continents. 
Net Zero Asset  Founding member of  Published first progress report in November  –  Work in partnership with asset owner clients on 
Managers initiative  NZAMi, which  2021 which contained interim targets from 43  decarbonization goals, consistent with an 
(NZAMi)  includes 220 asset  asset managers. As per the progress report,  ambition to reach net-zero emissions by 2050 
managers managing  signatories disclosed an average of 35% of  or earlier across all AuM. 
over USD 57 trillion  total assets under management (AuM) as  –  Committed to align USD 235 billion AuM, 
of assets.  being managed in line with achieving net zero  equivalent to 35% of eligible assets and 20% 
In November 2021,  by 2050 (USD 4.2 trillion out of a possible  of our total AuM. 
we were one of the   USD 11.9 trillion).  –  Will review interim target at least every five 
largest and most  years, with a view to increasing the proportion 
diversified firms to set  of AuM covered until 100% of assets are 
an interim 2030  included. 
target. 
Net-Zero Banking  Founding member of  Developing guidelines, frameworks,  –  Contributed to setting up the NZBA and 
Alliance (NZBA)  NZBA.  methodologies, and timelines for net-zero  actively involved in working groups. 
Active participant in  implementation in the global banking sector.   –  Work with member banks to develop necessary 
working groups on  methodologies, frameworks and guidelines to 
“Sectoral target- reach net-zero emissions latest by 2050. 
setting,” “Data and  –  Committed to publishing ambitious 
Methodologies,”  intermediate targets for priority sectors within 
“Financing and  18 months of signing, and for all sectors within 
Engagement” and  36 months of signing, and to regularly review 
“Implementation.”   targets in line with NZBA guidelines. 
Glasgow Financial  Founding member of  Bringing together existing and new net-zero  –  Active involvement in working groups. 
Alliance for Net Zero  GFANZ.  finance initiatives in one sector-wide coalition,  –  Work with members institutions from across 
(GFANZ)  Active participant in  GFANZ provides a forum for leading financial  the financial services industry on supporting the 
  workstreams on  institutions to accelerate the transition to a  economy-wide transition to net zero. 
“Financial institution  net-zero global economy.  
transition plans,” 
“Portfolio alignment 
measurement” and 
“Policy call to 
action.” 
Institute of  Chair of SFWG.  Produced a report titled “Navigating Climate  –  Committed to providing leadership for this key 
International  Headwinds,” which summarized the  financial services industry forum. 
Finance (IIF)  experiences to date of more than twenty  –  Worked with SFWG members from across the 
Sustainable Finance  banks across eight jurisdictions with regulatory  financial industry on identifying policy and 
Working Group  climate risk scenario analysis exercise; and  regulatory frameworks and capital market 
(SFWG)  provided recommendations to the Central  solutions that support the development and 
Bank and Supervisory Network for Greening  growth of sustainable finance. 
the Financial System (NGFS) and the Basel 
Committee on Banking Supervision’s (BCBS) 
Taskforce on Climate-related Financial 
Risks (TCFR) on how to take forward 
regulatory and supervisory activity. 
Note: In addition to the memberships listed above, UBS also joined the Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF) in 2022. We aim to disclose emissions in future reporting across our loan book based on 
PCAF standards, in accordance with PCAF’s expectations regarding implementation timelines. 
› Refer to Appendix 7 to this report for more details about UBS memberships and commitments 
1437  
Sustainability Report 2021 | What 
Managing climate risks  change across economies and consequently can affect banks and 
the financial sector through financial and non-financial impacts. 
At UBS, SCR is defined as the risk that UBS 
In March 2020, Group Risk Control established our firm’s climate 
is negatively impacted by or negatively  risk program to further integrate climate risk in the firm’s risk 
management framework and standard processes. The program 
impacts climate change, loss of 
follows a multi-year roadmap to address current and emerging 
biodiversity, human rights infringements,  regulations and is engaging with stakeholders and experts both 
internally  and  externally  to  further  develop  climate  risk 
and other environmental, social and 
methodologies, deliver on climate stress test exercises, and build 
governance factors.  capacity to respond to climate risk management expectations. 
We currently identify and manage climate risks in our own 
› Refer to the “Risk management and control” section of the UBS  operations, our balance sheet, client assets and the supply chain. 
Annual Report 2021 for the UBS risk categories  To protect our clients’ and our own assets from climate-related 
risks, in 2021 we continued to drive the integration of climate-
Sustainability and climate risks may manifest as credit, market,  related risk into our standard risk management framework.  
liquidity  or  operational  risks,  resulting  in  potential  adverse  We further integrated climate risk in: (i) risk identification and 
 
financial or reputational impacts for UBS. They may also negatively  measurement; (ii) risk monitoring and appetite setting; (iii) risk 
impact the value of investments. Climate risks can arise from  management and control; and (iv) risk reporting processes across 
either changing climate conditions (physical risks) or from efforts  the organization. Our Climate Risk Management Framework is 
to  mitigate  climate  change  (transition  risks).  Physical  and  described  in  more  detail  in  the  graph  and  text  below. 
transition risks from a changing climate contribute to a structural  Implementation of the framework is in progress. 
Climate Risk Management Framework (implementation in progress)
1  Identiﬁ cation and 2  Monitoring and risk
measurement appetite setting 
Climate-related physical and transition Climate risk exposures are monitored,
risks are identiﬁ ed and integrated and metrics reported internally
in the Group risk identiﬁ cation process. to enable risk appetite setting.
d
n M
C––––    liCCCaCmnlllliiiiadmmmmt saaaaettttt reeeeteo    smrssoisccs aoelktktner eheisatrcter:i aaiaeorltxi dmtaey3nra caapisslsyse1sesis2ssment1 Idenmtieﬁ acsautrieonm eant risk aopnpietotirtien gse attnid C–––   liCQQmluuiamaatnlaeittt aiettto airvtoisievlk kec m ilcitml:eimtartaiect ser1i srkis ka pappepteitteit1e3
n
g
nt
e
Re em ol
4  RKeey pcloimrattien rgisk considerations are included  porting M anadg contr 3  MMaanangaemgeenmt aendn tco antnrodl  pcroocnestsreosl 
in internal and external reporting. an ensure that material climate risks
are identiﬁ ed, measured, monitored
Climate toolkit: and escalated in a timely manner. 
– Periodic risk reports4 Climate toolkit:
– External disclosures1
– Process controls5 
– Capacity building and training5 
Disclaimer: This framework will be updated based on progress on integration of climate risk in ﬁ rm-wide processes
1 Implemented, externally disclosed, further development underway   2 Historic scenario assessments disclosed, scenario analysis and stress test exercises underway   3 Under development   4 Implemented, 
internal disclosure, further development underway   5 Climate risk-speciﬁ c controls and capacity building ongoing and being further developed
1448  
Sustainability Report 2021 | What   
Managing climate risks  change across economies and consequently can affect banks and  Climate risk identification and measurement  Most fluctuations from 2020 to 2021 were driven by the 
the financial sector through financial and non-financial impacts.  combination of the 2020 COVID-19-related dip in energy demand 
At UBS, SCR is defined as the risk that UBS  UBS approaches climate risk identification 
In March 2020, Group Risk Control established our firm’s climate  and prices, followed by increased energy demand and higher 
is negatively impacted by or negatively  risk program to further integrate climate risk in the firm’s risk  through climate risk heatmaps, which  energy  prices  in  2021.  Despite  these  fluctuations,  we  have 
management framework and standard processes. The program  continued to reduce our exposure to climate-sensitive sectors 
impacts climate change, loss of  enable us to take a materiality-driven 
follows a multi-year roadmap to address current and emerging  since 2019.  
biodiversity, human rights infringements,  regulations and is engaging with stakeholders and experts both  approach to climate risk management.  
internally  and  externally  to  further  develop  climate  risk  Physical risk heatmap 
and other environmental, social and 
methodologies, deliver on climate stress test exercises, and build  Climate-related physical and transition risks are identified at 
We continued to innovate new 
governance factors.  capacity to respond to climate risk management expectations.  divisional and cross-divisional level and integrated in the firm-wide 
We currently identify and manage climate risks in our own  risk identification process.   methodologies in 2021, by developing a 
› Refer to the “Risk management and control” section of the UBS  operations, our balance sheet, client assets and the supply chain.  › Refer to our climate materiality assessment above 
novel physical risk heatmap methodology.  
Annual Report 2021 for the UBS risk categories  To protect our clients’ and our own assets from climate-related   
risks, in 2021 we continued to drive the integration of climate- The heatmaps enable UBS to take a materiality-driven approach 
The  physical  risk  heatmap  methodology  groups  corporate 
Sustainability and climate risks may manifest as credit, market,  related risk into our standard risk management framework.   to further inform our climate risk management strategy by: 
counterparties based on exposure to key physical risk factors, by 
liquidity  or  operational  risks,  resulting  in  potential  adverse  We further integrated climate risk in: (i) risk identification and  –  helping us to identify concentrations of exposure with high 
  rating sectoral, geographic, and value chain vulnerabilities in a 
financial or reputational impacts for UBS. They may also negatively  measurement; (ii) risk monitoring and appetite setting; (iii) risk  climate risk vulnerability, which, in turn, enables resource 
climate change trajectory, in which no additional policy action is 
impact the value of investments. Climate risks can arise from  management and control; and (iv) risk reporting processes across  prioritization for a detailed risk analysis and management 
taken. A rating is applied based upon: 
either changing climate conditions (physical risks) or from efforts  the organization. Our Climate Risk Management Framework is  action;  
–  the  counterparty’s  sectoral  activity  (e.g.,  primary  energy 
to  mitigate  climate  change  (transition  risks).  Physical  and  described  in  more  detail  in  the  graph  and  text  below.  –  supporting a client-centric strategy in order to best assist clients 
extraction presents higher physical risks than banks); 
transition risks from a changing climate contribute to a structural  Implementation of the framework is in progress.  that may benefit from UBS products and services in support of 
–  the counterparty’s geography (e.g., countries in Southeast Asia 
their climate transition strategies; and by 
tend to be higher risk than those in western Europe, with some 
–  providing  information  to  senior  management  to  support 
Climate Risk Management Framework (implementation in progress) exceptions); and 
decision making and the provision of external disclosure to 
–  the potential disruption to a counterparty’s value chain, where 
stakeholders. 
relevant (both its supply chain, customer base and distribution 
 
1  Identiﬁ cation and 2  Monitoring and risk channels).  
Our  climate  risk  heatmaps  rate  cross-sectoral  credit  risk 
 
measurement appetite setting 
exposure to climate sensitivity, from high to low, through a risk 
UBS will continue to build upon the methodology in 2022, 
segmentation process. These ratings are based on climate risk 
Climate-related physical and transition Climate risk exposures are monitored, further enhancing our approach with relevant subject matter 
risks are identiﬁ ed and integrated and metrics reported internally ratings determined by ratings agencies, regulators and expert 
experts. The current physical risk heatmap shows that UBS has no 
in the Group risk identiﬁ cation process. to enable risk appetite setting. consultants and have been further developed by UBS subject 
d exposure to high-risk activities, and relatively low exposure to 
C––––    liCCCaCmnlllliiiiadmmmmt saaaaettttt reeeeteo    smrssoisccs aoelktktner eheisatrcter:i aaiaeorltxi dmtaey3nra caapisslsyse1sesis2ssment1 Idenmtieﬁ acsautrieonm eannt riskM aopnpietotirtien gse attnid C–––   liCQQmluuiamaatnlaeittt aiettto airvtoisievlk kec m ilcitml:eimtartaiect ser1i srkis ka pappepteitteit1e3 am“rraipcsatklpeiTt mltdmhiec aemaret  tteoithoe-wdsonxeeodp.nr  oeaCsmrltioottesieguv .ati enehn”tsUode. d  srehpioxniagplgorho tgieseituersh,rs  uee ms na,adr ceybel  irymtd h biaeesotxrtteeiahn fm coththir neeeii ann apt gpmht pyheaesexpiacipsrra ,o  lia snaupU norpBednrSs oet  ra taochdnhrae s tbfi itaoniaonterhdnes      llavweeucnnitltnKiddhveiie inntryiaggte hb  sccie isloo i tnrltylkaoac ett eteoetynhd  rtpae rehla ixzfyaticiesnsoeid canp ansbhtl ci yaocioa vlnirlfime  n sagaeeol  txcfee pto smortlrieas,so nuktdwedrsee .hi inr  niacgi tnh Sec wltyliuso i td bzeheyp ir grlnhoahanip gtdeuhro.r  teryM v  oloomilnsuwtosm euodrerfe as rr noiascuotkeefr,     
ng of the heatmaps and are assigned a climate vulnerability rating  companies or lending in particularly higher-risk regions, such as 
based on the primary industry code (GICS) and risk domicile in 
South Asia. Both transition and physical risk heatmap (as proof of 
UBS data systems. 
concept) are presented on the next pages.
nt
e Transition risk heatmap 
Re em ol The transition risk heatmap methodology is based on dividing 
4  RKeey pcloimrattien rgisk considerations are included  porting M anadg contr 3  MMaanangaemgeenmt aendn tco antnrodl  pcroocnestsreosl  esecgomnoemntics   saencdt orrsa tiwngit h thsoimseil ars ergismk encthsa raacctceorridstiincgs   itnot o thriesikr  
in internal and external reporting. an ensure that material climate risks vulnerability to climate policy, low-carbon technology risks, and 
are identiﬁ ed, measured, monitored revenue  or  demand  shifts  under  an aggressive approach  to 
Climate toolkit: and escalated in a timely manner. 
meeting the well-below-2˚C Paris goal. As a result, the ratings in 
– Periodic risk reports4 Climate toolkit: the heatmap reflect the levels of risk that would likely occur under 
– External disclosures1
– Process controls5  an ambitious transition (in a short- to medium-term time horizon). 
– Capacity building and training5 
The current transition risk heatmap shows 
Disclaimer: This framework will be updated based on progress on integration of climate risk in ﬁ rm-wide processes that UBS’s exposure to activities rated as 
1 Implemented, externally disclosed, further development underway   2 Historic scenario assessments disclosed, scenario analysis and stress test exercises underway   3 Under development   4 Implemented,  having high, moderately high or moderate 
internal disclosure, further development underway   5 Climate risk-speciﬁ c controls and capacity building ongoing and being further developed
vulnerability to climate transition risks is 
relatively low.  
48  1459  
Climate risk heatmap (transition risks) 
in USD million
High 265
Coal 233
265 High
4,741 Moderately high
Shale gas 24
32,503 Moderate Oil reﬁning 8
17,593 Moderately low
Moderately high 4,741
459,061
Total exposure
192,189 Low
Chemicals22,821
Transportation and storage (oil) 853
211,769
Non-sensitive1
Integrated oil and gas companies 404
Cement or concrete manufacturing 312
Conventional oil drilling233
High-carbon power generation (regulated) 118
Moderate 32,503  
Commercial real estate management 18,029
Downstream oil and gas distribution 4,430
Construction – non-infrastructure3,206
Mining conglomerates 2,687
Manufacturing of other metals 917
Consumer durables manufacturing 873
Airlines – commercial 708
Car manufacturing (high-carbon) 644
Land-based shipping, high-carbon (trucks)500
Medium-carbon power generation (regulated) 249
Sea-based shipping160
Steel / iron manufacturing 76
Livestock – beef, extensive grazing15
Conventional gas drilling 4
Transportation and storage (gas)3
1 Non-sensitive is mostly composed of private Lombard lending.   2 Includes pharmaceuticals.
16 
Climate risk heatmap (transition risks)  Climate risk heatmap (physical risks) 
in USD million in USD million
High 265
78 High
6,100 Moderately high
19,297 Moderate
Coal 233
265 High
4,741 Moderately high 55,421
Shale gas 24 Moderately low
32,503 Moderate Oil reﬁning 8 192,395
Low
459,061
Total exposure
17,593 Moderately low
Moderately high 4,741
459,061
Total exposure
192,189 Low
Chemicals22,821
Transportation and storage (oil) 853
211,769 185,770
Non-sensitive1
Integrated oil and gas companies 404 Non-sensitive1
Cement or concrete manufacturing 312
Conventional oil drilling233
High-carbon power generation (regulated) 118
Switzerland North America Europe and Central Asia Latin America and the Caribbean
Moderate 32,503  
215,560 107,940 49,757 38,502
Commercial real estate management 18,029 Moderately low Low Low Low
Downstream oil and gas distribution 4,430
Construction – non-infrastructure3,206
Mining conglomerates 2,687
Manufacturing of other metals 917
Consumer durables manufacturing 873
East Asia and the Paciﬁc Middle East and North Africa Sub-Saharan Africa South Asia
Airlines – commercial 708
33,773 11,511 1,332 687
Low Low Low Moderately low
Car manufacturing (high-carbon) 644
Land-based shipping, high-carbon (trucks)500
Medium-carbon power generation (regulated) 249
Sea-based shipping160
Steel / iron manufacturing 76
Livestock – beef, extensive grazing15
1 Non-sensitive is mostly composed of private Lombard lending.
Conventional gas drilling 4
Transportation and storage (gas)3
1 Non-sensitive is mostly composed of private Lombard lending.   2 Includes pharmaceuticals.
1571  
3 East Asia and Pacific 5 Europe and Central Asia 2 Latin America and Caribbean
Switzerland
2 Middle East and North Africa 4 North America 1 South Asia 1 Sub-Saharan Africa master donut
Sustainability Report 2021 | What 
Climate scenario analysis  Early in-house scenario analyses have been followed by a series of 
Since 2014, we have been using scenario- assessments performed through industry collaborations in order 
to harmonize approaches for addressing methodological and data 
based approaches to assess our exposure 
gaps. We have performed both top-down balance sheet stress 
to physical and transition risks stemming  testing (across the firm), as well as targeted, bottom-up analysis 
of specific sector exposures covering short-, medium-, and long-
from climate change. 
term  time  horizons.  In  2021,  UBS  began  to  participate  in 
regulatory stress test exercises. The table below summarizes the 
UBS scenario assessments performed to date. 
Assessment  Year   Scenarios used  Time horizon1  Outcomes 
Regulatory stress  Bank of England Climate  2021–2022  CBES scenarios (consistent  Long-term  Stress test exercise is 
test exercises  Biennial Exploratory Scenario  with but not identical to  (LT)  ongoing (UBS is 
(CBES):   NGFS scenarios):   participating on a 
Financial risks from climate  – early action  voluntary basis) 
change  – late action 
– no additional action 
European Central Bank (ECB)  2021–2022  Macro-financial scenarios  LT  Stress test exercise is 
climate risk stress test  based on NGFS scenarios  ongoing 
Swiss Financial Market  2021  NGFS-based scenarios  LT  UBS participated in 
Supervisory Authority  assessment in 2021 
(FINMA) / Swiss National  FINMA expected to 
Bank (SNB) climate risk  publish conclusions in its 
assessment:  Annual Report 2021   
Focus on measurement of 
climate-related transition risks 
Scenario analysis  UNEP FI TCFD phase III project  2021  NGFS scenarios  Short-term  Phase III informed 
informed by industry  for banks and investors:   (ST)  internal projects, 
collaboration  Deep dive on climate  Medium-term  capacity building, 
transition risks in real estate,  (MT)  training and further 
portfolio alignment methods,  LT  enhancement of climate 
and client-centric approaches  materiality and heatmap 
for supporting transition  methodologies 
strategies 
UNEP FI TCFD phase II project  2020  Integrated Assessment  ST  UBS has a very low 
for banks:   Modeling Consortium  MT  exposure to economic 
Further development of  (IAMC) scenarios (presented  LT  activities with moderate 
climate scenarios, in line with  in the table below as part of  to high transition risk 
the range of reference  NGFS scenarios)  No significant credit loss 
scenarios published by the  Other academic research  from transition risks in 
NGFS  supporting scenario-aligned  orderly and disorderly 
Development of a heatmap  natural catastrophe analysis  1.5°C scenarios 
methodology  No significant losses 
Pilot testing the credit analysis  expected from lending 
methodology on our oil and  collateralized by real 
gas portfolio and physical risk  estate neither in 
analysis on our real estate  Switzerland nor the 
mortgage portfolio  United States 
Paris Agreement Capital  2020  IEA2, B2DS3, SDS4, NPS5,  ST  Listed investments 
Transition Assessment  CPS6  MT  results show that UBS 
(PACTA) 2020 climate  has a relatively low 
alignment test:   exposure to power, 
Studying the climate  automotive and fossil 
alignment of Swiss  fuel sectors overall, 
mortgages, direct real estate  compared with the 
investments and listed  aggregated results of all 
investments portfolios  participating banks’ 
portfolios 
PACTA:   2019–2020  IEA2, B2DS3, SDS4, NPS5,  ST  UBS has a low lending 
Testing the alignment of UBS  CPS6  MT  exposure to high-carbon 
corporate lending portfolios  sectors 
with Paris Agreement 
benchmarks 
1582  
Sustainability Report 2021 | What   
Climate scenario analysis  Early in-house scenario analyses have been followed by a series of    Assessment  Year   Scenarios used  Time horizon1  Outcomes 
Since 2014, we have been using scenario- assessments performed through industry collaborations in order 
UNEP FI TCFD phase | project  2018–2019  IAMC  ST  No significant credit loss 
to harmonize approaches for addressing methodological and data 
based approaches to assess our exposure  for banks:  MT  neither from transition 
gaps. We have performed both top-down balance sheet stress  Development of a credit  risks in 2-degree 
to physical and transition risks stemming  testing (across the firm), as well as targeted, bottom-up analysis  analysis methodology that  scenarios, nor impacts 
of specific sector exposures covering short-, medium-, and long- uses integrated assessment  from physical risks in 4- 
from climate change.  modeling (IAM) climate  and 2-degree scenarios 
term  time  horizons.  In  2021,  UBS  began  to  participate  in 
scenarios; pilot testing the 
regulatory stress test exercises. The table below summarizes the  methodology on UBS power 
UBS scenario assessments performed to date.  utilities credit portfolio 
Natural Capital Finance  2017  Historic academic  ST  No significant 
Alliance / United Nations  precipitation observations  MT  production impact from 
Environment Programme  drought 
Assessment  Year   Scenarios used  Time horizon1  Outcomes 
Finance Initiative (UNEP FI):  
Regulatory stress  Bank of England Climate  2021–2022  CBES scenarios (consistent  Long-term  Stress test exercise is  Assessment of the impact of 
test exercises  Biennial Exploratory Scenario  with but not identical to  (LT)  ongoing (UBS is  increased drought on 
(CBES):   NGFS scenarios):   participating on a  productivity of borrowers in 
Financial risks from climate  – early action  voluntary basis)  UBS energy credit portfolio 
change  – late action 
– no additional action  In-house scenario  Assessment of physical  2015  Climate scenario developed  ST  Low financial impact 
analysis  climate hazard impacts on  in-house  MT  due to insurance 
European Central Bank (ECB)  2021–2022  Macro-financial scenarios  LT  Stress test exercise is    mortgage portfolios secured  coverage and loan 
climate risk stress test  based on NGFS scenarios  ongoing  by real estate  maturity profile 
Swiss Financial Market  2021  NGFS-based scenarios  LT  UBS participated in  Assessment of climate  2015  Climate scenario developed  ST  Low financial impact 
Supervisory Authority  assessment in 2021    transition risk impacts  in-house  MT  due to high quality and 
(FINMA) / Swiss National  FINMA expected to  (changing oil, gas and coal  maturity profile of 
Bank (SNB) climate risk  publish conclusions in its  prices, implying an increased  portfolio 
assessment:  Annual Report 2021    carbon price) on oil, gas and 
Focus on measurement of  electric utilities credit 
climate-related transition risks  portfolios 
Scenario analysis  UNEP FI TCFD phase III project  2021  NGFS scenarios  Short-term  Phase III informed  UBS climate stress test to  2014  Climate scenario developed  ST  Moderate financial 
informed by industry  for banks and investors:   (ST)  internal projects,  assess firm-wide vulnerability  in-house  MT  impact in line with other 
collaboration  Deep dive on climate  Medium-term  capacity building,  to climate change (impacts to  stress scenarios, such as 
transition risks in real estate,  (MT)  training and further  balance sheet, operational  those that foresee an oil 
portfolio alignment methods,  LT  enhancement of climate  income and physical assets)  shock 
and client-centric approaches  materiality and heatmap 
for supporting transition  methodologies  11 SSTT= short-term, 0–3 years; MMTT = medium-term, 3–10 years; LLTT = long-term, over 10 years.    22 International Energy Agency (IEA), World Energy Outlook.    33 Beyond 2-Degree Scenario    44 Sustainable 
strategies  Development Scenario    55 New Policies Scenario    66 Current Policies Scenario. 
Note: Climate scenario analysis is a novel area of research, and we expect the methodologies, tools and availability of data to evolve and improve over time. This overview summarizes the key scenario assessments 
and pilots conducted at UBS since 2014. We will build upon these to deepen our understanding of climate risks and opportunities. 
UNEP FI TCFD phase II project  2020  Integrated Assessment  ST  UBS has a very low 
for banks:   Modeling Consortium  MT  exposure to economic 
Further development of  (IAMC) scenarios (presented  LT  activities with moderate 
climate scenarios, in line with  in the table below as part of  to high transition risk 
the range of reference  NGFS scenarios)  No significant credit loss 
scenarios published by the  Other academic research  from transition risks in 
NGFS  supporting scenario-aligned  orderly and disorderly 
Development of a heatmap  natural catastrophe analysis  1.5°C scenarios 
methodology  No significant losses 
Pilot testing the credit analysis  expected from lending 
methodology on our oil and  collateralized by real 
gas portfolio and physical risk  estate neither in 
analysis on our real estate  Switzerland nor the 
mortgage portfolio  United States 
Paris Agreement Capital  2020  IEA2, B2DS3, SDS4, NPS5,  ST  Listed investments 
Transition Assessment  CPS6  MT  results show that UBS 
(PACTA) 2020 climate  has a relatively low 
alignment test:   exposure to power, 
Studying the climate  automotive and fossil 
alignment of Swiss  fuel sectors overall, 
mortgages, direct real estate  compared with the 
investments and listed  aggregated results of all 
investments portfolios  participating banks’ 
portfolios 
PACTA:   2019–2020  IEA2, B2DS3, SDS4, NPS5,  ST  UBS has a low lending 
Testing the alignment of UBS  CPS6  MT  exposure to high-carbon 
corporate lending portfolios  sectors 
with Paris Agreement 
benchmarks 
52  1593  
Sustainability Report 2021 | What 
Climate scenarios used at UBS 
 
SScceennaarriioo  nnaammee   DDeevveellooppeedd   TTeemmppeerraattuurree   TTyyppee33   CCaarrbboonn   DDeessccrriippttiioonn  ((aass  pprroovviiddeedd  bbyy  tthhee  ddeevveellooppiinngg  oorrggaanniizzaattiioonn))  
bbyy     aalliiggnnmmeenntt   DDiiooxxiiddee  
RReemmoovvaall  
((CCDDRR))44  
NNeett  ZZeerroo  22005500   NGFS1  1.5°C  Orderly  Moderate  Net Zero 2050 is an ambitious scenario that limits global warming to 1.5°C, with stringent climate 
((22002211))   reliance  policies and innovation, reaching net-zero CO₂ emissions around 2050. Some jurisdictions such as 
the US, EU and Japan reach net zero for all greenhouse gases by this point. This scenario assumes 
that ambitious climate policies are introduced immediately. CDR is used to accelerate the 
decarbonization but kept to the minimum possible and broadly in line with sustainable levels of 
bioenergy production. Net CO₂ emissions reach zero around 2050, giving at least a 50% chance of 
limiting global warming to below 1.5°C by the end of the century, with no or low overshoot 
(< 0.1 °C) of 1.5°C in earlier years. Physical risks are relatively low, but transition risks are high. 
BBeellooww  22°°CC   NGFS  1.8°C  Orderly  Moderate  Below 2°C gradually increases the stringency of climate policies, giving a 67% chance of limiting 
((22002211))   reliance  global warming to below 2°C. This scenario assumes that climate policies are introduced 
immediately and become gradually more stringent, though not as high as in Net Zero 2050. CDR is 
deployment is relatively low. Net-zero CO₂ emissions are achieved after 2070. Physical and 
transition risks are both relatively low. 
DDiivveerrggeenntt  NNeett   NGFS  1.5°C  Disorderly  Low  Divergent Net Zero reaches net zero by 2050 but with higher costs due to divergent policies 
ZZeerroo  ((22002211))   reliance  introduced across sectors and a quicker phase out of fossil fuels. This scenario differentiates itself 
from Net Zero 2050 by assuming that climate policies are more stringent in the transportation and 
building sectors. This mimics a situation where the failure to coordinate policy stringency across 
sectors results in a high burden on consumers, while decarbonization of energy supply and industry 
is less stringent. Furthermore, the availability of CDR technologies is assumed to be lower than in 
Net Zero 2050. Emissions are in line with a climate goal giving at least a 50% chance of limiting 
global warming to below 1.5°C by the end of the century, with no or low overshoot (<0.1°C) of 
1.5°C in earlier years. This leads to considerably higher transition risks than Net Zero 2050 but 
overall the lowest physical risks of the six NGFS scenarios. 
DDeellaayyeedd  TTrraannssiittiioonn   NGFS  1.8°C  Disorderly  Low  Delayed Transition assumes global annual emissions do not decrease until 2030. Strong policies 
((22002211))   reliance  are then needed to limit warming to below 2°C. Negative emissions are limited. This scenario 
assumes new climate policies are not introduced until 2030 and the level of action differs across 
countries and regions based on currently implemented policies, leading to a “fossil recovery” out of 
the economic crisis brought about by COVID-19. The availability of CDR technologies is assumed to 
be low, pushing carbon prices higher than in Net Zero 2050. As a result, emissions exceed the 
carbon budget temporarily and decline more rapidly than in well-below-2°C after 2030, to ensure 
a 67% chance of limiting global warming to below 2°C. This leads to both higher transition and 
physical risks than Net Zero 2050 and below 2°C scenarios. 
NNaattiioonnaallllyy   NGFS  ~2.5°C  Hot house  Low  Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) includes all pledged policies even if not yet 
DDeetteerrmmiinneedd   world  reliance  implemented. This scenario assumes that the moderate and heterogeneous climate ambition 
CCoonnttrriibbuuttiioonnss   reflected in the NDCs at the beginning of 2021 continues over the course of the 21st century (low 
((22002211))   transition risks). Emissions decline but lead nonetheless to about 2.5°C of warming associated with 
moderate to severe physical risks. Transition risks are relatively low. 
CCuurrrreenntt  PPoolliicciieess   NGFS  +3.0°C  Hot house  Low  Current Policies assumes that only currently implemented policies are preserved, leading to high 
((22002211))   world  reliance  physical risks. Emissions grow until 2080, leading to about 3°C of warming and severe physical 
risks. This includes irreversible changes, such as higher sea levels. This scenario can help central 
banks and supervisors consider the long-term physical risks to the economy and financial system if 
we continue on our current path to a “hot house world.” 
EEaarrllyy  AAccttiioonn   BoE - CBES  1.8°C  Orderly  Moderate  The transition to a net-zero economy starts in 2021, so carbon taxes and other policies intensify 
20212  reliance  relatively gradually over the scenario horizon. Global CO2 emissions are reduced to net zero by 
around 2050. Some sectors are more adversely affected by the transition than others, but the overall 
impact on GDP growth is muted, particularly in the latter half of the scenario once a significant 
portion of the required transition has occurred and the productivity benefits of green technology 
investments begin to be realized. 
LLaattee  AAccttiioonn   BoE - CBES  1.8°C  Disorderly  Low  The implementation of policy to drive the transition is delayed until 2031 and is then more sudden 
20212  reliance  and disorderly. The more compressed nature of the reduction in emissions results in material short-
term macroeconomic disruption. This affects the whole economy but is particularly concentrated in 
carbon-intensive sectors. Output contracts sharply in the UK and international economies. The rapid 
sectoral adjustment associated with the sharp fall in GDP reduces employment and leads to some 
businesses and households not being able to make full use of their assets, with knock-on 
consequences for demand and spending. Risk premia rise across multiple financial markets. 
2504  
Sustainability Report 2021 | What   
Climate scenarios used at UBS  SScceennaarriioo  nnaammee   DDeevveellooppeedd   TTeemmppeerraattuurree   TTyyppee33   CCaarrbboonn   DDeessccrriippttiioonn  ((aass  pprroovviiddeedd  bbyy  tthhee  ddeevveellooppiinngg  oorrggaanniizzaattiioonn))  
  bbyy     aalliiggnnmmeenntt   DDiiooxxiiddee  
RReemmoovvaall  
SScceennaarriioo  nnaammee   DDeevveellooppeedd   TTeemmppeerraattuurree   TTyyppee33   CCaarrbboonn   DDeessccrriippttiioonn  ((aass  pprroovviiddeedd  bbyy  tthhee  ddeevveellooppiinngg  oorrggaanniizzaattiioonn))  
((CCDDRR))44  
bbyy     aalliiggnnmmeenntt   DDiiooxxiiddee  
RReemmoovvaall   NNoo  AAddddiittiioonnaall   BoE - CBES  3.3°C  Hot house  Low  Primarily explores physical risks from climate change. Here, there are no new climate policies 
((CCDDRR))44   AAccttiioonn     20212  world  reliance  introduced beyond those already implemented. A growing concentration of greenhouse gas 
emissions in the atmosphere and global temperature levels lead to chronic changes in precipitation, 
NNeett  ZZeerroo  22005500   NGFS1  1.5°C  Orderly  Moderate  Net Zero 2050 is an ambitious scenario that limits global warming to 1.5°C, with stringent climate 
ecosystems and sea level. There is also a rise in the frequency and severity of extreme weather events 
((22002211))   reliance  policies and innovation, reaching net-zero CO₂ emissions around 2050. Some jurisdictions such as 
such as heatwaves, droughts, wildfires, tropical cyclones and flooding. There are permanent impacts 
the US, EU and Japan reach net zero for all greenhouse gases by this point. This scenario assumes 
on living and working conditions, buildings and infrastructure, realized through GDP. Changes in 
that ambitious climate policies are introduced immediately. CDR is used to accelerate the 
physical hazards are unevenly distributed with tropical and sub-tropical regions affected more 
decarbonization but kept to the minimum possible and broadly in line with sustainable levels of 
severely. Many of the impacts from physical risks are expected to become more severe later in the 
bioenergy production. Net CO₂ emissions reach zero around 2050, giving at least a 50% chance of 
21st century and some will become irreversible.  
limiting global warming to below 1.5°C by the end of the century, with no or low overshoot 
(< 0.1 °C) of 1.5°C in earlier years. Physical risks are relatively low, but transition risks are high. 
RReepprreesseennttaattiivvee   IPCC /  3-4°C  Hot house  Low  The RCP 6.0 scenario uses a high greenhouse gas emission rate and is a stabilization scenario where 
CCoonncceennttrraattiioonn   scientific  world  reliance  total radiative forcing is stabilized after 2100 by employment of a range of technologies and 
BBeellooww  22°°CC   NGFS  1.8°C  Orderly  Moderate  Below 2°C gradually increases the stringency of climate policies, giving a 67% chance of limiting 
PPaatthhwwaayyss  ((RRCCPP))  66     community  strategies for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Emissions peak around 2080, then decline. 
((22002211))   reliance  global warming to below 2°C. This scenario assumes that climate policies are introduced 
immediately and become gradually more stringent, though not as high as in Net Zero 2050. CDR is 
SSuussttaaiinnaabbllee   IEA  1.65°C  Orderly  Moderate  A “well-below-2°C” pathway, this scenario is a gateway to the outcomes targeted by the Paris 
deployment is relatively low. Net-zero CO₂ emissions are achieved after 2070. Physical and 
DDeevveellooppmmeenntt   reliance  Agreement. It is based on a surge in clean-energy policies and investment that puts the energy 
transition risks are both relatively low. 
SScceennaarriioo   system on track for key SDGs. In this scenario, all current net-zero pledges are achieved in full and 
((22002211))   there are extensive efforts to realize near-term emissions reductions; advanced economies reach net-
DDiivveerrggeenntt  NNeett   NGFS  1.5°C  Disorderly  Low  Divergent Net Zero reaches net zero by 2050 but with higher costs due to divergent policies 
zero emissions by 2050, China around 2060, and all other countries by 2070 at the latest. 
ZZeerroo  ((22002211))   reliance  introduced across sectors and a quicker phase out of fossil fuels. This scenario differentiates itself 
from Net Zero 2050 by assuming that climate policies are more stringent in the transportation and 
TThhee  NNeett--ZZeerroo   IEA  1.5°C  Orderly  Moderate  This is a normative IEA scenario that shows a narrow but achievable pathway for the global energy 
building sectors. This mimics a situation where the failure to coordinate policy stringency across 
sectors results in a high burden on consumers, while decarbonization of energy supply and industry  EEmmiissssiioonnss  bbyy  22005500   reliance  sector to achieve net-zero CO2 emissions by 2050, with advanced economies reaching net-zero 
SScceennaarriioo   emissions in advance of others. This scenario assumes stable and affordable energy supplies, 
is less stringent. Furthermore, the availability of CDR technologies is assumed to be lower than in 
((22002211))   providing universal energy access, and enabling robust economic growth, while minimizing costs.  
Net Zero 2050. Emissions are in line with a climate goal giving at least a 50% chance of limiting 
global warming to below 1.5°C by the end of the century, with no or low overshoot (<0.1°C) of 
SSttaatteedd  PPoolliicciieess   IEA  2.6°C  Hot house  Low  This scenario provides a more conservative benchmark for the future because it does not take for 
1.5°C in earlier years. This leads to considerably higher transition risks than Net Zero 2050 but 
SScceennaarriioo   world  reliance  granted that governments will reach all the announced goals. Instead, it takes a more granular, 
overall the lowest physical risks of the six NGFS scenarios. 
((22002211))   sector-by-sector look at what has actually been put in place to reach these and other energy-related 
objectives, taking into account not only existing policies and measures but also those that are under 
DDeellaayyeedd  TTrraannssiittiioonn   NGFS  1.8°C  Disorderly  Low  Delayed Transition assumes global annual emissions do not decrease until 2030. Strong policies 
development. The policies assessed in the Stated Policies Scenario cover a broad spectrum. These 
((22002211))   reliance  are then needed to limit warming to below 2°C. Negative emissions are limited. This scenario 
include NDCs under the Paris Agreement, and many others. 
assumes new climate policies are not introduced until 2030 and the level of action differs across 
countries and regions based on currently implemented policies, leading to a “fossil recovery” out of  11  Network for Greening the Financial System.    22  Bank of England / Climate Biennial Exploratory Scenario 2021. The BoE built upon the reference scenarios published by the NGFS; UBS performed additional in-house 
the economic crisis brought about by COVID-19. The availability of CDR technologies is assumed to  expansion of BoE scenarios, to undertake the analysis across multiple regions and sectors.    33  Orderly: low transition risk and low physical risks; disorderly: higher transition risks and low physical risks; hot house 
be low, pushing carbon prices higher than in Net Zero 2050. As a result, emissions exceed the  world: low transition risks and high physical risks.    44  Carbon Dioxide Removal (CDR): indicates reliance on CDR policies and technologies, such as carbon capture and storage (CCS). 
carbon budget temporarily and decline more rapidly than in well-below-2°C after 2030, to ensure 
   
a 67% chance of limiting global warming to below 2°C. This leads to both higher transition and 
physical risks than Net Zero 2050 and below 2°C scenarios. 
NNaattiioonnaallllyy   NGFS  ~2.5°C  Hot house  Low  Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) includes all pledged policies even if not yet 
DDeetteerrmmiinneedd   world  reliance  implemented. This scenario assumes that the moderate and heterogeneous climate ambition 
CCoonnttrriibbuuttiioonnss   reflected in the NDCs at the beginning of 2021 continues over the course of the 21st century (low 
((22002211))   transition risks). Emissions decline but lead nonetheless to about 2.5°C of warming associated with 
moderate to severe physical risks. Transition risks are relatively low. 
CCuurrrreenntt  PPoolliicciieess   NGFS  +3.0°C  Hot house  Low  Current Policies assumes that only currently implemented policies are preserved, leading to high 
((22002211))   world  reliance  physical risks. Emissions grow until 2080, leading to about 3°C of warming and severe physical 
risks. This includes irreversible changes, such as higher sea levels. This scenario can help central 
banks and supervisors consider the long-term physical risks to the economy and financial system if 
we continue on our current path to a “hot house world.” 
EEaarrllyy  AAccttiioonn   BoE - CBES  1.8°C  Orderly  Moderate  The transition to a net-zero economy starts in 2021, so carbon taxes and other policies intensify 
20212  reliance  relatively gradually over the scenario horizon. Global CO2 emissions are reduced to net zero by 
around 2050. Some sectors are more adversely affected by the transition than others, but the overall 
impact on GDP growth is muted, particularly in the latter half of the scenario once a significant 
portion of the required transition has occurred and the productivity benefits of green technology 
investments begin to be realized. 
LLaattee  AAccttiioonn   BoE - CBES  1.8°C  Disorderly  Low  The implementation of policy to drive the transition is delayed until 2031 and is then more sudden 
20212  reliance  and disorderly. The more compressed nature of the reduction in emissions results in material short-
term macroeconomic disruption. This affects the whole economy but is particularly concentrated in 
carbon-intensive sectors. Output contracts sharply in the UK and international economies. The rapid 
sectoral adjustment associated with the sharp fall in GDP reduces employment and leads to some 
businesses and households not being able to make full use of their assets, with knock-on 
consequences for demand and spending. Risk premia rise across multiple financial markets. 
54  2515  
Sustainability Report 2021 | What 
Regulatory scenario analysis and stress test exercises  In-house scenario assessments 
In 2021, UBS began participating in regulatory scenario analysis  Our initial top-down approach in 2014 consisted of a scenario- 
and stress test exercises, namely the Bank of England (BoE) 2021  based stress test to assess UBS’s balance sheet vulnerability across 
Climate Biennial Exploratory Scenario (CBES): Financial risks from  the firm. Leveraging our existing firm-wide, top-down stress-
climate change as well as the European Central Bank (ECB)  testing methodology, we developed a climate-change scenario. It 
climate stress test. In 2021, we also participated in a top-down  assumed that severe weather events will result in governments 
climate risk assessment performed jointly by FINMA and the SNB  worldwide agreeing to implement carbon-pricing mechanisms to 
in Switzerland.   assess the impact on financial assets, operational income and 
For the 2021 CBES exercise, the BoE is using exploratory  physical assets. The scenario envisioned that these mechanisms 
scenarios to investigate a range of climate risks stemming from  would prompt a shift away from coal and other fossil fuels to 
climate  change.  While  UBS  was  not  formally  required  to  cleaner alternatives, adversely impacting markets and GDP.  
participate, as we are not a UK-headquartered bank, we opted in  Our subsequent bottom-up analyses in 2015 of loan portfolios 
to the exercise in order to learn from the effort and given our  involving oil and gas firms, as well as electric utilities, consisted of 
footprint in the UK.   a forward-looking analysis to assess the impacts of a long-term 
UBS Europe SE is participating in the ECB supervisory climate  low fossil fuel price scenario resulting from policies promoting 
risk stress test, which assesses how prepared banks are for dealing  greater use of renewables, enhancing efficiency standards and 
with financial and economic shocks stemming from climate risk.  limiting emissions. We calculated the impact this scenario would 
The exercise will be conducted in the first half of 2022, after which  have  on  companies’  probability  of  default  and  aggregated 
the ECB will publish aggregate results.   company-level results at the portfolio level to assess changes to 
Throughout  2021,  we  have  engaged  with  a  range  of  expected loss. We also assessed the vulnerability of loan portfolios 
regulatory  surveys  and  other  requests  for  information  from  secured by real estate in Switzerland and the US to physical risk. 
supervisors around the globe. We contributed to the NGFS’s work  We did this by mapping the location of collateral in more than 
exploring the potential for risk differentials among assets due to  6,000 postal code areas against Swiss Re’s CatNet tool, which 
climate  change.  We  also  participated  in  industry  efforts  to  aggregates a large dataset of observed natural hazards such as 
evaluate regulatory exercises to date. This included the IIF report  wildfire, river and pluvial flooding, and tropical cyclones. 
“Navigating  Climate  Headwinds,”  which  examined  learnings  From both top-down and bottom-up approaches, our internal 
from 20 global institutions on regulatory climate scenario analysis  stress tests suggested no immediate threat to UBS’s balance 
and stress test exercises. We will continue to leverage these  sheet. However, we identified methodological challenges ranging 
learnings as it further enhances testing methodologies.  from the suitability of climate scenarios for banking risk modeling 
to data availability. 
Scenario analysis informed by industry collaboration 
In 2018, UBS began a multi-year collaboration with a broad peer  Climate risk monitoring and risk appetite 
group of banks, the UNEP FI, the IAMC and risk consultancy firms 
In 2021, we further expanded our suite of 
Oliver Wyman and Acclimatise. Now entering its fourth year, our 
objective is to develop analytical tools to help banks define and  climate risk metrics in response to the 
disclose climate-related risks and opportunities, as recommended 
revised guidance on implementation of the 
by the TCFD. This includes developing and standardizing how we 
quantify climate-related risks, addressing data gaps in the process,  TCFD recommendations. This includes the 
including Paris-aligned scenarios, and further refining scenario-
development of a physical risk heatmap 
based stress-testing methodologies. These advancements aim for 
banks to more robustly identify and disclose exposure to climate- methodology and expansion of the scope 
related risks and opportunities. 
of climate-sensitive sectors and carbon-
In addition to the UNEP FI TCFD working group for banks, 
between 2019 and 2020, UBS was one of the pilot banks testing  related assets metrics.  
the PACTA methodology. In the context of the PACTA for lending 
pilot, we studied the alignment of select climate-sensitive sectors  We  further  refined  our  ability  to  estimate  the  firm’s 
in  our  corporate  credit  portfolio  with  Paris  Agreement  vulnerability to climate-related risks by developing a physical risk 
benchmarks.  The  methodology  provides an  assessment of  a  heatmap in addition to the transition risk heatmap, which was 
bank’s credit-financed activities in relation to the global shift to a  first published in our 2020 report.  
low-carbon economy. We also participated in the PACTA 2020  › Refer to our transition and physical risk heatmaps under 
climate  alignment  test,  which  focused  on  assessing  listed  “Climate risk identification and measurement” above 
investments, mortgage and direct real estate portfolios. On this 
occasion,  the  PACTA  methodology  was  applied  to  listed  The current inventory of UBS’s exposure to climate-sensitive 
investments portfolios and our results were compared with the  activities  (transition  and  physical  risks)  at  the  sector  level is 
aggregated results of all participating banks’ portfolios.  summarized in the tables below. 
2526  
Sustainability Report 2021 | What   
Regulatory scenario analysis and stress test exercises  In-house scenario assessments  UBS corporate lending to climate-sensitive sectors – transition risks 
In 2021, UBS began participating in regulatory scenario analysis  Our initial top-down approach in 2014 consisted of a scenario- 
    As of 31.12.21      As of 31.12.20  As of 31.12.19 
and stress test exercises, namely the Bank of England (BoE) 2021  based stress test to assess UBS’s balance sheet vulnerability across  TTrreenndd  ((%%))  22001199  ttoo   SShhaarree  ooff  ttoottaall   SShhaarree  ooff  ttoottaall   SShhaarree  ooff  ttoottaall  
Climate Biennial Exploratory Scenario (CBES): Financial risks from  the firm. Leveraging our existing firm-wide, top-down stress- USD million    22002211   GGrroossss  eexxppoossuurree22   eexxppoossuurree22   eexxppoossuurree22   eexxppoossuurree22  
climate change as well as the European Central Bank (ECB)  testing methodology, we developed a climate-change scenario. It  CClliimmaattee--sseennssiittiivvee  sseeccttoorr11             
climate stress test. In 2021, we also participated in a top-down  assumed that severe weather events will result in governments  Aerospace and defence    ↓  883311   0.18%  0.21%  0.56% 
climate risk assessment performed jointly by FINMA and the SNB  worldwide agreeing to implement carbon-pricing mechanisms to  Automotive    ↓  770033   0.15%  0.22%  0.20% 
in Switzerland.   assess the impact on financial assets, operational income and  Business services              
For the 2021 CBES exercise, the BoE is using exploratory  physical assets. The scenario envisioned that these mechanisms 
Chemicals    ↓  11,,111122   0.24%  0.46%  0.30% 
scenarios to investigate a range of climate risks stemming from  would prompt a shift away from coal and other fossil fuels to 
Construction and materials    ↓  33,,663377   0.79%  0.86%  0.86% 
climate  change.  While  UBS  was  not  formally  required  to  cleaner alternatives, adversely impacting markets and GDP.  
Consumer products and retail    →  335555   0.08%  0.06%  0.08% 
participate, as we are not a UK-headquartered bank, we opted in  Our subsequent bottom-up analyses in 2015 of loan portfolios 
Entertainment, leisure and services              
to the exercise in order to learn from the effort and given our  involving oil and gas firms, as well as electric utilities, consisted of 
Food and beverage    →  22   0.00%  0.00%  0.00% 
footprint in the UK.   a forward-looking analysis to assess the impacts of a long-term 
UBS Europe SE is participating in the ECB supervisory climate  low fossil fuel price scenario resulting from policies promoting  Industrial materials    ↓  112211   0.03%  0.03%  0.07% 
risk stress test, which assesses how prepared banks are for dealing  greater use of renewables, enhancing efficiency standards and  Information technology              
with financial and economic shocks stemming from climate risk.  limiting emissions. We calculated the impact this scenario would  Machinery and equipment    ↑  11,,004400   0.23%  0.21%  0.16% 
The exercise will be conducted in the first half of 2022, after which  have  on  companies’  probability  of  default  and  aggregated  Medical equipment and services              
the ECB will publish aggregate results.   company-level results at the portfolio level to assess changes to  Mining    ↓  22,,992200   0.64%  0.64%  0.65% 
Throughout  2021,  we  have  engaged  with  a  range  of  expected loss. We also assessed the vulnerability of loan portfolios  Oil and gas    ↓  55,,882233   1.27%  1.09%  1.42% 
regulatory  surveys  and  other  requests  for  information  from  secured by real estate in Switzerland and the US to physical risk.  Pharmaceuticals / biotechnology    ↑  11,,440000   0.30%  0.34%  0.16% 
supervisors around the globe. We contributed to the NGFS’s work  We did this by mapping the location of collateral in more than 
Plastic and rubber    ↓  229999   0.07%  0.08%  0.08% 
exploring the potential for risk differentials among assets due to  6,000 postal code areas against Swiss Re’s CatNet tool, which 
Primary materials    →  1133   0.00%  0.00%  0.00% 
climate  change.  We  also  participated  in  industry  efforts  to  aggregates a large dataset of observed natural hazards such as 
Real estate management    ↓  1188,,002299   3.93%  4.05%  4.02% 
evaluate regulatory exercises to date. This included the IIF report  wildfire, river and pluvial flooding, and tropical cyclones. 
Sovereigns and financials              
“Navigating  Climate  Headwinds,”  which  examined  learnings  From both top-down and bottom-up approaches, our internal 
Transportation and equipment    ↓  884499   0.18%  0.24%  0.29% 
from 20 global institutions on regulatory climate scenario analysis  stress tests suggested no immediate threat to UBS’s balance 
and stress test exercises. We will continue to leverage these  sheet. However, we identified methodological challenges ranging  Utilities    ↓  337755   0.08%  0.08%  0.10% 
learnings as it further enhances testing methodologies.  from the suitability of climate scenarios for banking risk modeling  TToottaall  eexxppoossuurree  ttoo  cclliimmaattee--sseennssiittiivvee  sseeccttoorrss33     ↓↓   3377,,551100   8.17%  8.57%  8.96% 
to data availability.  TToottaall  eexxppoossuurree  ttoo  aallll  sseeccttoorrss        445599,,006611   100%  437,777  373,239 
Scenario analysis informed by industry collaboration  11 Climate-sensitive sectors are defined as those business activities that are rated as having high, moderately high or moderate vulnerability to transition risks and physical risks. Methodology developed in 
collaboration with UNEP FI TCFD working group and disclosed in Phase II “From disclosure to action – a guide to implementing the TCFD framework within financial institutions” report. Climate risk analysis is 
In 2018, UBS began a multi-year collaboration with a broad peer  Climate risk monitoring and risk appetite 
a novel area of research, and as the methodologies, tools and data availability of data improve, we continue to further develop our risk identification and measurement approaches.    22  Includes total loans and 
group of banks, the UNEP FI, the IAMC and risk consultancy firms  advances to customers and guarantees as well as irrevocable loan commitments (within the scope of expected credit loss). Includes loans collateralized by real estate (residential and commercial), across Global 
In 2021, we further expanded our suite of  Wealth Management, Personal & Corporate Banking , and the Investment Bank.     33 Global Wealth Management corporate lending to customers represents 1.1% of all on- and off-balance sheet loans and 
Oliver Wyman and Acclimatise. Now entering its fourth year, our 
advances to customers, and is excluded from the climate-sensitive sectors analysis in 2021. 
objective is to develop analytical tools to help banks define and  climate risk metrics in response to the     
disclose climate-related risks and opportunities, as recommended 
revised guidance on implementation of the 
by the TCFD. This includes developing and standardizing how we 
quantify climate-related risks, addressing data gaps in the process,  TCFD recommendations. This includes the 
including Paris-aligned scenarios, and further refining scenario-
development of a physical risk heatmap 
based stress-testing methodologies. These advancements aim for 
banks to more robustly identify and disclose exposure to climate- methodology and expansion of the scope 
related risks and opportunities. 
of climate-sensitive sectors and carbon-
In addition to the UNEP FI TCFD working group for banks, 
between 2019 and 2020, UBS was one of the pilot banks testing  related assets metrics.  
the PACTA methodology. In the context of the PACTA for lending 
pilot, we studied the alignment of select climate-sensitive sectors  We  further  refined  our  ability  to  estimate  the  firm’s 
in  our  corporate  credit  portfolio  with  Paris  Agreement  vulnerability to climate-related risks by developing a physical risk 
benchmarks.  The  methodology  provides an  assessment of  a  heatmap in addition to the transition risk heatmap, which was 
bank’s credit-financed activities in relation to the global shift to a  first published in our 2020 report.  
low-carbon economy. We also participated in the PACTA 2020  › Refer to our transition and physical risk heatmaps under 
climate  alignment  test,  which  focused  on  assessing  listed  “Climate risk identification and measurement” above 
investments, mortgage and direct real estate portfolios. On this 
occasion,  the  PACTA  methodology  was  applied  to  listed  The current inventory of UBS’s exposure to climate-sensitive 
investments portfolios and our results were compared with the  activities  (transition  and  physical  risks)  at  the  sector  level is 
aggregated results of all participating banks’ portfolios.  summarized in the tables below. 
56  2537  
Sustainability Report 2021 | What 
UBS corporate lending to climate-sensitive sectors – physical risks 
As of 31.12.21  As of 31.12.20  As of 31.12.19 
TTrreenndd  ((%%))  22001199  ttoo   SShhaarree  ooff  ttoottaall   SShhaarree  ooff  ttoottaall   SShhaarree  ooff  ttoottaall  
USD million  22002211   GGrroossss  eexxppoossuurree22   eexxppoossuurree22   eexxppoossuurree22   eexxppoossuurree22  
CClliimmaattee--sseennssiittiivvee  sseeccttoorr11  
Aerospace and defence  ↓  333388   0.07%  0.09%  0.48% 
Automotive  ↓  11,,004422   0.23%  0.31%  0.26% 
Business services  ↓  885533   0.19%  0.24%  0.25% 
Chemicals  ↓  999911   0.22%  0.44%  0.30% 
Construction and materials  ↓  330022   0.07%  0.07%  0.08% 
Consumer products and retail  ↑  665500   0.14%  0.10%  0.07% 
Entertainment, leisure and services  ↓  11,,330088   0.28%  0.29%  0.36% 
Food and beverage  ↑  11,,333344   0.29%  0.33%  0.25% 
Industrial materials  ↓  224433   0.05%  0.06%  0.12% 
Information technology  ↓  227744   0.06%  0.06%  0.14% 
Machinery and equipment  ↑  22,,773322   0.60%  0.61%  0.54% 
Medical equipment and services  ↑  440088   0.09%  0.16%  0.08% 
Mining  ↑  11,,115533   0.25%  0.21%  0.20% 
Oil and gas  ↓  55,,553388   1.21%  1.09%  1.38% 
Pharmaceuticals / biotechnology  →  881144   0.18%  0.13%  0.18% 
Plastic and rubber  ↓  228800   0.06%  0.08%  0.07% 
Primary materials  →  332200   0.07%  0.07%  0.07% 
Real estate management  ↑  552288   0.12%  0.13%  0.02% 
Sovereigns and financials  ↓  44,,337711   0.95%  1.06%  1.46% 
Transportation and equipment  ↓  441199   0.09%  0.17%  0.22% 
Utilities  ↑  11,,557799   0.34%  0.29%  0.33% 
TToottaall  eexxppoossuurree  ttoo  cclliimmaattee--sseennssiittiivvee  sseeccttoorrss33   ↓↓   2255,,447766   5.55%  5.99%  6.87% 
TToottaall  eexxppoossuurree  ttoo  aallll  sseeccttoorrss   445599,,006611   110000%%   443377,,777777   337733,,223399  
11 Climate-sensitive sectors are defined as those business activities that are rated as having high, moderately high or moderate vulnerability to transition risks and physical risks. Climate risk analysis is a novel 
area of research, and as the methodologies, tools and data availability improve, we continue to further develop our risk identification and measurement approaches.    22  Includes total loans and advances to 
customers and guarantees as well as irrevocable loan commitments (within the scope of expected credit loss).  Physical risk number includes USD 4 billion in loans backed by real estate, in regions with elevated 
climate risks.    33 Global Wealth Management corporate lending to customers represents 1.1% of all on- and off-balance sheet loans and advances to customers, and is excluded from the climate-sensitive 
sectors analysis in 2021. 
2548  
Sustainability Report 2021 | What   
UBS corporate lending to climate-sensitive sectors – physical risks  Climate risk appetite   
As of 31.12.21  As of 31.12.20  As of 31.12.19  UBS has a long-standing SCR policy that defines qualitative risk  › Refer to the SCR policy framework in appendix 6 to this report 
TTrreenndd  ((%%))  22001199  ttoo   SShhaarree  ooff  ttoottaall   SShhaarree  ooff  ttoottaall   SShhaarree  ooff  ttoottaall   appetite for climate risk. Details of climate-related standards in the  for further details about our SCR governance 
USD million  22002211   GGrroossss  eexxppoossuurree22   eexxppoossuurree22   eexxppoossuurree22   eexxppoossuurree22   energy and utilities sectors can be found in the graph below.  
CClliimmaattee--sseennssiittiivvee  sseeccttoorr11    
Aerospace and defence  ↓  333388   0.07%  0.09%  0.48%  Climate-related standards in the energy and utilities sectors 
Automotive  ↓  11,,004422   0.23%  0.31%  0.26% 
Coal  Coal-fired power plants    Not providing project-level finance to new coal-fired power plants globally. 
Business services  ↓  885533   0.19%  0.24%  0.25% 
Chemicals  ↓  999911   0.22%  0.44%  0.30%    Only supporting financing to transactions of existing coal-fired operators (>20% coal 
reliance) if they have a transition strategy that aligns with the goals of the Paris 
Construction and materials  ↓  330022   0.07%  0.07%  0.08%  Agreement, or if the transaction is related to renewable energy or clean technology. 
Consumer products and retail  ↑  665500   0.14%  0.10%  0.07% 
Entertainment, leisure and services  ↓  11,,330088   0.28%  0.29%  0.36%  Coal mining  Not providing financing where the stated use of proceeds is for greenfield1 thermal  
  coal mines. 
Food and beverage  ↑  11,,333344   0.29%  0.33%  0.25% 
We only provide financing to existing thermal coal-mining companies (>20% of 
Industrial materials  ↓  224433   0.05%  0.06%  0.12% 
revenues) if they have a transition strategy that aligns with the goals of the Paris 
Information technology  ↓  227744   0.06%  0.06%  0.14%  Agreement, or if the transaction is related to renewable energy or clean technology. 
Machinery and equipment  ↑  22,,773322   0.60%  0.61%  0.54% 
Medical equipment and services  ↑  440088   0.09%  0.16%  0.08%  Mountaintop removal (MTR)  Not providing financing to coal-mining companies engaged in MTR operations.  
 
Mining  ↑  11,,115533   0.25%  0.21%  0.20% 
Oil and gas  Arctic oil and oil sands  Not providing financing where the stated use of proceeds is for new offshore oil 
Oil and gas  ↓  55,,553388   1.21%  1.09%  1.38%    projects in the Arctic or greenfield1 oil sands projects. 
Pharmaceuticals / biotechnology  →  881144   0.18%  0.13%  0.18%  We only provide financing to companies with significant reserves or production in 
Plastic and rubber  ↓  228800   0.06%  0.08%  0.07%  Arctic oil / oil sands (>20% of reserves or production) if they have a transition strategy 
that aligns with the goals of the Paris Agreement or if the transaction is related to 
Primary materials  →  332200   0.07%  0.07%  0.07% 
renewable energy or clean technology. 
Real estate management  ↑  552288   0.12%  0.13%  0.02%   
Sovereigns and financials  ↓  44,,337711   0.95%  1.06%  1.46%  Liquefied natural gas (LNG)  Transactions directly related to LNG infrastructure assets are subject to enhanced SCR 
Transportation and equipment  ↓  441199   0.09%  0.17%  0.22%  and ultra-deepwater drilling  due diligence considering relevant factors such as management of methane leaks, as 
well as the company’s past and present environmental and social performance. 
Utilities  ↑  11,,557799   0.34%  0.29%  0.33% 
Transactions directly related to ultra-deepwater drilling assets are subject to enhanced 
TToottaall  eexxppoossuurree  ttoo  cclliimmaattee--sseennssiittiivvee  sseeccttoorrss33   ↓↓   2255,,447766   5.55%  5.99%  6.87% 
SCR due diligence considering relevant factors such as environmental impact analysis, 
TToottaall  eexxppoossuurree  ttoo  aallll  sseeccttoorrss   445599,,006611   110000%%   443377,,777777   337733,,223399   spill prevention and response plans, and the company’s past and present 
environmental and social performance. 
11 Climate-sensitive sectors are defined as those business activities that are rated as having high, moderately high or moderate vulnerability to transition risks and physical risks. Climate risk analysis is a novel 
area of research, and as the methodologies, tools and data availability improve, we continue to further develop our risk identification and measurement approaches.    22  Includes total loans and advances to 
customers and guarantees as well as irrevocable loan commitments (within the scope of expected credit loss).  Physical risk number includes USD 4 billion in loans backed by real estate, in regions with elevated  11  Greenfield means a new mine / well or an expansion of an existing mine / well that results in a material increase in existing production capacity. 
climate risks.    33 Global Wealth Management corporate lending to customers represents 1.1% of all on- and off-balance sheet loans and advances to customers, and is excluded from the climate-sensitive 
sectors analysis in 2021. 
Climate risk management and control  Protecting our clients’ assets  
Standard financial and non-financial risk processes ensure that  As a global financial institution, it is our responsibility to help 
material  climate  risks  are identified,  assessed,  approved and  clients  navigate  through  the  challenges  of  the  low-carbon 
escalated in a timely manner. Key responsibilities, processes and  transition.  
tools applicable to business divisions and Group Functions are 
We help our clients assess, manage and 
being defined as part of our firm’s climate risk program. 
  protect their assets from climate-related 
Climate risk reporting 
risks by offering innovative products and 
As part of our 2020 reporting, we disclosed our firm’s first climate 
risk heatmap in the UBS Sustainability Report and included an SCR  services in investment, financing and 
section in the Annual Report. In 2021, we automated the climate 
research and by providing transparency on 
transition risk heatmap for periodic internal risk reporting and 
introduced a physical risk heatmap as part of our climate report.   climate risk exposure. 
The development of internal and external  Across UBS Asset Management, carbon emissions data is 
available to portfolio managers and analysts, enabling them to 
climate risk disclosures will continue in the 
leverage carbon and carbon intensity data for more than 10,000 
coming years in the context of our climate  companies, and allowing them to examine the carbon footprint 
of  their  portfolios.  This  complements  the  work  of  portfolio 
risk program in order to address regulatory 
managers and analysts using our proprietary ESG Risk Dashboard 
expectations and provide leading practice  which aggregates multiple ESG data sources to help identify 
in this space.  companies with material ESG risks. Asset Management also uses 
its own risk system to aggregate ESG risks at a portfolio level. 
Asset Management has developed a suite of products, named 
Climate Aware, to help investors align their portfolios toward a 
low-carbon future. The first Climate Aware passive equity strategy 
was developed in conjunction with a large UK pension fund and 
launched  in  2017. In 2020, Asset  Management  launched  a 
58  2559  
Sustainability Report 2021 | What 
broader Climate Aware suite of investment strategies based on  inform voting decision making and are also fed back into in-house 
the original Climate Aware methodology, including active and  ESG risk assessments, enabling a forward-looking view on ESG 
passive, equity, and fixed income. The Climate Aware strategy  risks and opportunities. 
enables investors to reduce a portfolio ’s carbon footprint, invest Asset  Management  undertakes  multi-year  thematic 
in new technologies, and align portfolios to a low-carbon climate  engagements focused on specific themes considered material as 
“glidepath,” such as the 1.5°C scenario, envisioned by the Paris  identified by available internal and external research and aligned 
Agreement. Today, the Climate Aware strategies have grown to  with the overall sustainability and sustainable investment strategy 
USD 23.4 billion in investments. They are supported by Asset  of  the  firm.  Our  climate  thematic  engagement  focuses  on 
Management’s climate engagement program.  companies’ response to mitigating their climate transition-related 
Asset Management has applied an exclusion of companies that  risks.  Asset  Management  also  actively  votes  on  shareholder 
generate more than 20% of their revenues from thermal coal  resolutions  to  improve  transparency  and  disclosure  around 
mining or oil sands extraction across all equity and fixed income  climate-related  reporting.  The  climate  engagement  program 
strategies. We also apply an exclusion of companies with more than  began with the most significant underweighted oil and gas 
20% of their revenues from thermal coal-based power generation  companies and utilities companies in the Climate Aware strategy. 
across our sustainability focus and impact investing strategies. We 
believe that these companies will face the most significant climate- In 2021, Asset Management reviewed the 
related financial risks in light of the low-carbon transition. 
progress of companies in its three-year 
UBS is a founding member of the Net Zero 
climate engagement program. More than 
Asset Managers initiative. This 
half of these engagements were assessed 
commitment recognizes the urgent need 
as having made good or excellent 
to accelerate the transition toward global 
progress, but we also identified five 
net-zero emissions and for asset managers 
companies where we considered little 
to play their part in helping deliver the 
progress had been made. We excluded 
goals of the Paris Agreement and ensuring 
those five companies from our SI-focused 
a just transition.  
and Climate Aware strategies, which 
› Refer to the “Key climate-related memberships and  demonstrates that we take action when 
commitments” table above 
companies are not meeting their transition 
Our  Investment  Bank  supports  clients  on  their  transition  plans or are not willing to engage. 
journey, in terms of addressing climate risk and executing on their 
sustainability strategies. This includes the provision of advisory  During 2021, Asset Management revised the list of companies 
services, capital raising and access to capital markets. We are also  that we engage with, extending the focus sectors to include those 
looking at ways to facilitate access to carbon markets to meet  with a significant contribution to GHG emissions. This means that 
clients’ needs. Within Global Wealth Management, we identify  future engagements will include companies from the following 
the most material ESG issues to the sectors within the framework  sectors: oil and gas, electric and other utilities, metals and mining, 
of our sustainable investing scoring assessment, of which one of  construction materials, automotive, and chemicals. 
the six focus topics is climate change. We have also an established 
We retain a strong commitment to the 
shelf of long-term investment themes, the majority of which have 
a strong link to sustainability. A significant number explicitly focus  Climate Action 100+ collaboration, 
on climate change-related themes such as renewable energy and 
wherein investors engage with high 
green technology. At the portfolio level, companies with more 
than 5% revenue exposure to thermal coal are excluded from  carbon intensity companies. We are 
sustainable investing single security portfolios managed by Global 
members of 26 coalitions and lead six of 
Wealth Management on a discretionary basis. Looking ahead, we 
are working to build more detailed carbon footprint data into our  them.  
research and reporting toolkits. 
Climate Action 100+ was launched in December 2017 to help 
Engagement  drive the clean-energy transition and achieve the goals of the Paris 
Within our Asset Management division, engagement is a key  Agreement. It has the support of 615 investors, representing more 
constituent in the investment process across both passive and  than USD 60 trillion of assets under management (AuM) (as of 
active strategies. Its stewardship policy provides an overview of  31 December 2021). Whether Asset Management is a lead or 
the way in which engagement cases are prioritized.  participating investor, it is an active member of these coalitions, 
Engagements are driven by investment professionals across all  providing  feedback  on  the  climate  change  performance  of 
functions, including analysts, portfolio managers and the SI team.  companies, the discussion agenda, engagement goals and the 
The sharing of ESG information and investment research in a  progress of these dialogues.  
centralized manner via our internal platforms ensures a consistent  › Refer to UBS Asset Management’s annual stewardship report,
and aligned voice from the firm. Engagement insights are used to  available at uubbss..ccoomm//ggrrii, for more details 
2660  
Sustainability Report 2021 | What   
broader Climate Aware suite of investment strategies based on  inform voting decision making and are also fed back into in-house  Expanding climate-related opportunities  In our Global Wealth Management and Personal & Corporate 
the original Climate Aware methodology, including active and  ESG risk assessments, enabling a forward-looking view on ESG  Banking business divisions, private clients can access discretionary 
passive, equity, and fixed income. The Climate Aware strategy  risks and opportunities.  Climate-related opportunities identified  mandates  based on our  sustainable  investing  strategic  asset 
enables investors to reduce a portfolio ’s carbon footprint, invest Asset  Management  undertakes  multi-year  thematic  Although there is a natural, and critical, focus on climate-related  allocation  (SI  SAA)  methodology.  This  is  grounded  in  our 
in new technologies, and align portfolios to a low-carbon climate  engagements focused on specific themes considered material as  risks, mitigating the impacts of climate change also opens new  innovative SI SAA approach to building diversified portfolios 
“glidepath,” such as the 1.5°C scenario, envisioned by the Paris  identified by available internal and external research and aligned  opportunities. Banks are exploring opportunities in a variety of  across asset classes.  
Agreement. Today, the Climate Aware strategies have grown to  with the overall sustainability and sustainable investment strategy  areas, including:  This approach allocates assets to strategies that directly help 
USD 23.4 billion in investments. They are supported by Asset  of  the  firm.  Our  climate  thematic  engagement  focuses  on  –  new products and services, for example, in the area of real  mitigate  climate  change,  such  as  green  and  multi-lateral 
Management’s climate engagement program.  companies’ response to mitigating their climate transition-related  estate financing;   development  bank bonds,  and  thematic  investments.  It  also 
Asset Management has applied an exclusion of companies that  risks.  Asset  Management  also  actively  votes  on  shareholder  –  sustainable financing to fund green projects. For instance,  contributes to strategies that address climate change adaptation 
generate more than 20% of their revenues from thermal coal  resolutions  to  improve  transparency  and  disclosure  around  renewable energy projects, or financing in areas such as clean  or  indirectly  help  mitigate  climate  change,  for  example,  by 
mining or oil sands extraction across all equity and fixed income  climate-related  reporting.  The  climate  engagement  program  technology;  investing in companies that manage ESG issues better than their 
strategies. We also apply an exclusion of companies with more than  began with the most significant underweighted oil and gas  –  integration of sustainability aspects in corporate financing,  peers or show continuous improvement. In 2020, we launched a 
20% of their revenues from thermal coal-based power generation  companies and utilities companies in the Climate Aware strategy.  including innovative structures such as green equity-linked  customized portfolio advisory solution that enables private clients 
across our sustainability focus and impact investing strategies. We  instruments;  to tilt portfolios toward climate change considerations, one of six 
believe that these companies will face the most significant climate- In 2021, Asset Management reviewed the  –  partnerships with companies to deliver climate solutions, for  sustainability topics of preference. In 2021, this was extended to 
related financial risks in light of the low-carbon transition.  example, working with manufacturers to provide financing  additional client segments. Our 2021 investor sentiment survey 
progress of companies in its three-year 
options for electric vehicles;   showed climate to be one of the top sustainable investment areas 
UBS is a founding member of the Net Zero 
climate engagement program. More than  –  developing new technologies, such as digital solutions that  of  focus  among  private  clients,  demonstrating  our  clients’ 
Asset Managers initiative. This  help customers measure and offset their carbon footprint;   appetite for the direction we are taking. 
half of these engagements were assessed 
–  supporting  investors  in  directing  capital,  for  example,  › Refer to the summary of the UBS investor sentiment survey in 
commitment recognizes the urgent need 
as having made good or excellent  educating and guiding on sustainable investment and finance  the “What” section to this report 
to accelerate the transition toward global  opportunities.   
progress, but we also identified five 
Global  Wealth  Management  integrates  sustainability 
net-zero emissions and for asset managers 
companies where we considered little  Assessing the issues  assessments into the standard due diligence processes for all new 
to play their part in helping deliver the  An important first step in developing solutions and strategies for  fund solutions offered via its platform. These assessments focus 
progress had been made. We excluded 
a low-carbon economy is to understand the issues driving them.   on fund managers’ sustainability commitments and capabilities, 
goals of the Paris Agreement and ensuring 
those five companies from our SI-focused  as well as the degree to which sustainability is incorporated into 
As part of our net-zero commitment, we 
a just transition.   the investment process. Clients, regulators and the marketplace 
and Climate Aware strategies, which 
have conducted a baseline and target- more  broadly  are  increasing  their  scrutiny  of  environmental 
› Refer to the “Key climate-related memberships and  demonstrates that we take action when  considerations, notably climate risk. Therefore, we continue to 
setting exercise for financed emissions, 
commitments” table above  enhance our processes further still to focus both on risk mitigation 
companies are not meeting their transition 
initially in three sectors: fossil fuels, power  and investment opportunities for our clients in this space. 
Our  Investment  Bank  supports  clients  on  their  transition  plans or are not willing to engage.  By the end of 2021, we had mobilized USD 11.6 billion of 
generation and real estate (commercial 
journey, in terms of addressing climate risk and executing on their  private client money into impact investments related to the SDGs, 
sustainability strategies. This includes the provision of advisory  During 2021, Asset Management revised the list of companies  and residential).   of which climate considerations form a part. 
services, capital raising and access to capital markets. We are also  that we engage with, extending the focus sectors to include those  Global Wealth Management’s fund offering includes climate-
looking at ways to facilitate access to carbon markets to meet  with a significant contribution to GHG emissions. This means that  We already only conduct business in the areas of fossil fuels  focused investment strategies, for example, investments in clean 
clients’ needs. Within Global Wealth Management, we identify  future engagements will include companies from the following  and power generation under stringent criteria. We will continue  alternative  energy  and  smart  mobility.  Our  Global  Wealth 
the most material ESG issues to the sectors within the framework  sectors: oil and gas, electric and other utilities, metals and mining,  to engage with power generation and extraction companies  Management and Asset Management business divisions also 
of our sustainable investing scoring assessment, of which one of  construction materials, automotive, and chemicals.  (among others) on their climate transition plans, and raise our  address ESG factors across their investment disciplines. Asset 
the six focus topics is climate change. We have also an established  voice with stragglers. Work is also underway on the remaining  Management’s Real Estate and Private Markets teams apply a 
We retain a strong commitment to the 
shelf of long-term investment themes, the majority of which have  sectors, in line with NZBA requirements.   sustainable investment strategy. This strategy aims to enhance the 
a strong link to sustainability. A significant number explicitly focus  Climate Action 100+ collaboration,  performance of mandates for direct and indirect real estate and 
on climate change-related themes such as renewable energy and  Capturing the opportunities and developing  infrastructure investments. In Switzerland, our UBS Clean Energy 
wherein investors engage with high 
green technology. At the portfolio level, companies with more  sustainable solutions  Infrastructure Switzerland strategy offers institutional investors 
than 5% revenue exposure to thermal coal are excluded from  carbon intensity companies. We are  We are continually developing and refining sustainable solutions  access to a diversified portfolio of infrastructure investments in 
sustainable investing single security portfolios managed by Global  and approaches that help reduce the risks of climate change.  growth areas of sustainable energy production, energy efficiency 
members of 26 coalitions and lead six of 
Wealth Management on a discretionary basis. Looking ahead, we  When developing new products and services, we aim to address  and supply infrastructure with a focus on Switzerland. 
are working to build more detailed carbon footprint data into our  them.   material risks and opportunities, allowing clients to invest in 
research and reporting toolkits.  sustainable  solutions  that  can  deliver  returns  comparable  to 
Climate Action 100+ was launched in December 2017 to help  traditional investments, and which align with their values.  
Engagement  drive the clean-energy transition and achieve the goals of the Paris 
Within our Asset Management division, engagement is a key  Agreement. It has the support of 615 investors, representing more  For this reason, sustainable investments 
constituent in the investment process across both passive and  than USD 60 trillion of assets under management (AuM) (as of  now represent our preferred solution to 
active strategies. Its stewardship policy provides an overview of  31 December 2021). Whether Asset Management is a lead or 
the way in which engagement cases are prioritized.  participating investor, it is an active member of these coalitions,  private clients investing globally.  
Engagements are driven by investment professionals across all  providing  feedback  on  the  climate  change  performance  of 
functions, including analysts, portfolio managers and the SI team.  companies, the discussion agenda, engagement goals and the 
The sharing of ESG information and investment research in a  progress of these dialogues.  
centralized manner via our internal platforms ensures a consistent  › Refer to UBS Asset Management’s annual stewardship report,
and aligned voice from the firm. Engagement insights are used to  available at uubbss..ccoomm//ggrrii, for more details 
60  2671  
Sustainability Report 2021 | What 
Climate Aware – a framework for investors   sustainable finance and advisory services to companies that help 
We  have  already  highlighted  the  Climate  Aware  strategy  mitigate and adapt to climate change, and those in transition to 
approach developed by Asset Management. The strategy is based  a more sustainable and circular economy. These include, for 
on a framework, which covers three main areas.  example, businesses in the solar, wind, hydro, energy efficiency, 
transport, waste and biofuels sectors.  
(i) Portfolio mitigation (lowering investment exposures  Our products and solutions include green and sustainable, 
to carbon risk)  sustainability-linked  bonds  issued in  accordance  with  market 
In our experience, balancing required returns and minimizing  principles and / or taxonomies.2 UBS’s share of financing of such 
climate  risks  works  best  when  investors  integrate  climate  transactions amounted to USD 13.2 billion (with the full deal 
considerations into a diversified portfolio. This approach also  value of these transactions being USD 63.3 billion). 
helps focus minds on the risks of climate change.  We aim to be the preferred strategic partner for financing 
As the TCFD has highlighted, these risks can be regulatory,  transactions and advisory related to Switzerland’s Energy Strategy 
market-driven, technological and physical. How the risks manifest  2050. In this context, we help energy utilities raise capital on 
within markets, industry sectors and for individual issuers depends  international capital markets to transition to renewable energy.  
on an interplay of the following factors. Accounting for these 
factors shines a spotlight on the most material issues relating to  Green Funding Framework 
carbon-intensive sectors needing to reduce their emissions. It also 
In 2021, UBS launched the Green Funding 
leads  to  a  deeper  investment-related  understanding  of  the 
physical risks: regulations; commercial considerations; and the  Framework. This Group-wide framework 
impact of technology on business models, revenue costs and 
sets out how UBS intends to connect our 
capital requirements. 
sustainability objectives with access to 
(ii) Portfolio adaptation (increasing exposure to climate 
financial markets through a variety of 
innovations and solutions) 
Supporting a low-carbon future involves investing in and funding  funding products.  
new technologies and solutions. The key investment areas relate 
to reducing emissions, energy transition (moving global energy  The framework is based on current established market practice 
systems  to  sustainable  models)  and  energy  efficiency.  They  and meets the core pillars set out in the ICMA Green Bond 
include companies that manufacture and deploy technologies,  Principles updated in 2021. It has been assessed by Sustainalytics 
and those that provide the infrastructure and services required to  and has received certification from the Climate Bonds Initiative. 
make those technologies widely available. To reduce their climate  In June 2021, UBS AG issued its inaugural Swiss franc- and 
impact, companies may develop their business structure, asset  euro-denominated senior green bonds allocated to refinancing 
ownership, supply chains and delivery models in various ways.  mortgages on Minergie-certified Swiss properties (with a look-
Different kinds of investors also have different risk appetites  back period of up to two years). Forming part of the new 
and requirements for types of investments. For example, venture  enhanced sustainability strategy, with these bonds UBS raised, for 
capital, private equity, real estate, public equity and public fixed- the first time, unsecured funding with an ESG feature.  
income investments come with different exposures to technology  UBS  is  committed  to  reporting  on  the  allocation  of  any 
risk.  proceeds  raised  under  the  framework  and  the  estimated 
environmental impact of the eligible green assets.  
(iii) Portfolio transition (aligning portfolios to investors’ chosen  › Refer to uubbss..ccoomm//ggrreeeennbboonnddss for more details on the Green 
climate journeys)  Funding Framework, external reviews and annual reporting 
It is important for investors to understand the difference between  (including the impact and allocation reporting) 
their current situation and the opportunities of moving to a low-
carbon  future.  Scenario  analysis  helps  prompt  longer-term  Supporting clients with climate-related philanthropic endeavors 
thinking about the risks and opportunities of climate change. We  UBS  Optimus  Foundation  enables  clients  to  get  involved  in 
advocate for and engage with stakeholders on climate-related  programs  relating  to  sustainable  land  use  –  restoring  and 
principles, including proxy voting. These approaches also help  conserving land, and supporting climate-resilient agriculture and 
investors understand different investment and climate approaches  agroforestry; and to coastal and marine ecosystems – restoring 
in different sectors and countries.  and conserving wetlands, supporting sustainable fisheries, and 
reducing ocean waste and pollution. To help our clients achieve 
Supporting companies to mitigate and adapt to climate change  the best possible results from their philanthropy, UBS and experts 
Our Investment Bank is actively engaged in building up our  conducted  an  extensive  landscape  analysis,  which  led  to  a 
offering of products that address the broad range of themes  systematic approach enabling clients to assess where to invest and 
falling  under  the  wider  topic  of  sustainability.  We  provide  how best to contribute to and accelerate climate action. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
22  Such as, but not limited to, ICMA Green Bond Principles, Sustainability Bond Guidelines, and, Sustainability-linked Bond Principles; LMA / LSTA / APLMA Green Loan Principles, Sustainability-linked Loan Principles. 
2682  
Sustainability Report 2021 | What   
Climate Aware – a framework for investors   sustainable finance and advisory services to companies that help  Metrics and targets   As part of our commitment to net zero we will also work to 
We  have  already  highlighted  the  Climate  Aware  strategy  mitigate and adapt to climate change, and those in transition to  compensate our historic emissions back to the year 2000. This 
approach developed by Asset Management. The strategy is based  a more sustainable and circular economy. These include, for  UBS’s approach to net zero – from commitment to action   represents 4.2 million metric tons of CO , primarily resulting from 
2
on a framework, which covers three main areas.  example, businesses in the solar, wind, hydro, energy efficiency,  UBS supports the goals of the Paris Agreement, which includes  electricity and other energy consumption from UBS buildings 
transport, waste and biofuels sectors.   aligning our own operations and business activities with the  during those years. To address these emissions, we are in the 
(i) Portfolio mitigation (lowering investment exposures  Our products and solutions include green and sustainable,  pathway of a five-step net-zero plan to: (i) measure carbon  process of sourcing a portfolio of transparent carbon offsets from 
to carbon risk)  sustainability-linked  bonds  issued in  accordance  with  market  emissions; (ii) define a roadmap and set targets; (iii) reduce climate  the voluntary carbon market across a range of project types and 
In our experience, balancing required returns and minimizing  principles and / or taxonomies.2 UBS’s share of financing of such  impact; (iv) finance climate action and support the transition of  geographies. Our portfolio is primarily focused on renewable 
climate  risks  works  best  when  investors  integrate  climate  transactions amounted to USD 13.2 billion (with the full deal  our clients; and (v) communicate and engage. We have organized  energy / energy efficiency projects reflecting the main origin of 
considerations into a diversified portfolio. This approach also  value of these transactions being USD 63.3 billion).  the key content on these steps under three headers in this section:  the emissions in our buildings, but also includes a number of 
helps focus minds on the risks of climate change.  We aim to be the preferred strategic partner for financing  net zero to reduce our direct climate impact, net zero to finance  nature-based offsets including reforestation, afforestation and 
As the TCFD has highlighted, these risks can be regulatory,  transactions and advisory related to Switzerland’s Energy Strategy  climate action and support the transition of our (financing) clients,  conservation. We are committed to supporting the development 
market-driven, technological and physical. How the risks manifest  2050. In this context, we help energy utilities raise capital on  and net zero to protect our (investing) clients’ assets.  of internationally agreed quality standards in the voluntary carbon 
within markets, industry sectors and for individual issuers depends  international capital markets to transition to renewable energy.     market in order to reinforce the market’s role in the transition to 
on an interplay of the following factors. Accounting for these  UBS’s net-zero approach – from commitment to action  a low-carbon economy.  
factors shines a spotlight on the most material issues relating to  Green Funding Framework 
1. Measure carbon emissions 
carbon-intensive sectors needing to reduce their emissions. It also  Scope 3 – upstream 
In 2021, UBS launched the Green Funding  We have measured carbon emissions for scopes 1,2 and parts of scope 3 
leads  to  a  deeper  investment-related  understanding  of  the  To reduce emissions related to our supply chain, our responsible 
of our own operations since 2004. Following our net-zero commitment in 
physical risks: regulations; commercial considerations; and the  Framework. This Group-wide framework  April 2021, we commenced measuring carbon emissions in our financing  supply chain management framework continues to drive our 
impact of technology on business models, revenue costs and  (starting with three priority sectors) and investment portfolios.  sustainable procurement as it has done since 2008. All of our 
sets out how UBS intends to connect our 
capital requirements.  high-impact vendors go through our responsible supply chain 
2. Define roadmap and set targets 
sustainability objectives with access to  management (RSCM) assessments.  
We have defined 2025, 2030 and 2035 targets in the run-up to net zero 
(ii) Portfolio adaptation (increasing exposure to climate  by 2050. 
financial markets through a variety of  We are now engaging with key vendors on 
innovations and solutions) 
Supporting a low-carbon future involves investing in and funding  funding products.   3. Reduce climate impact  targeting net zero by 2035. 
new technologies and solutions. The key investment areas relate  We have consistently reduced the carbon footprint of our operations 
(scopes 1 and 2) since we set our 2004 baseline. In 2021 we have defined 
to reducing emissions, energy transition (moving global energy  The framework is based on current established market practice 
pathways to reduce emissions in our financing and investment portfolios.  Offsetting to balance residual scope 1, 2 or 3 emissions 
systems  to  sustainable  models)  and  energy  efficiency.  They  and meets the core pillars set out in the ICMA Green Bond 
According to the guidelines established by the NZBA, offsets can 
include companies that manufacture and deploy technologies,  Principles updated in 2021. It has been assessed by Sustainalytics  4. Support clients’ transition and finance climate action 
play a role to supplement decarbonization in line with climate 
and those that provide the infrastructure and services required to  and has received certification from the Climate Bonds Initiative.  We engage with our investing clients. We offer solutions to mobilize 
make those technologies widely available. To reduce their climate  In June 2021, UBS AG issued its inaugural Swiss franc- and  capital for a low-carbon world, e.g., with the issuance of green bonds and  science. The reliance on carbon offsetting for achieving end-state 
our Climate Aware strategy. For self-occupied real estate, we offer the  net zero should be restricted to carbon removals to balance 
impact, companies may develop their business structure, asset  euro-denominated senior green bonds allocated to refinancing 
UBS Renovation Mortgage.  residual emissions where there are limited technologically or 
ownership, supply chains and delivery models in various ways.  mortgages on Minergie-certified Swiss properties (with a look-
financially viable alternatives to eliminate emissions. 
Different kinds of investors also have different risk appetites  back period of up to two years). Forming part of the new  5. Communicate and engage 
When it comes to our own operations, over the last few years 
and requirements for types of investments. For example, venture  enhanced sustainability strategy, with these bonds UBS raised, for  We have reported on our climate strategy since 2014. Starting from 
reporting year 2021 we have expanded this disclosure to include our net- we have strategically invested into energy efficiency measures and 
capital, private equity, real estate, public equity and public fixed- the first time, unsecured funding with an ESG feature.  
zero plans. We are engaging with our clients, peers and other stakeholders  sourcing of 100% renewable electricity, which have materially 
income investments come with different exposures to technology  UBS  is  committed  to  reporting  on  the  allocation  of  any  to further develop methodologies and be an active supporter of a net-zero 
reduced our net emissions footprint today compared with only a 
risk.  proceeds  raised  under  the  framework  and  the  estimated  economy. 
few years ago. We will be further reducing this and aim for net 
environmental impact of the eligible green assets.  
zero in our own operations for scopes 1 and 2 by 2025. By that 
(iii) Portfolio transition (aligning portfolios to investors’ chosen  › Refer to uubbss..ccoomm//ggrreeeennbboonnddss for more details on the Green  Net zero to reduce our direct climate impact  point we envisage there being less than 10% of remaining gross 
climate journeys)  Funding Framework, external reviews and annual reporting 
emissions that cannot be mitigated by other means and where we 
It is important for investors to understand the difference between  (including the impact and allocation reporting)  Scopes 1 and 2  would need to purchase high-quality carbon removal offsets to 
their current situation and the opportunities of moving to a low-
We aim to achieve net-zero direct (scope 1) and energy indirect  compensate. For our key vendors (scope 3) we are targeting net 
carbon  future.  Scenario  analysis  helps  prompt  longer-term  Supporting clients with climate-related philanthropic endeavors 
(scope 2)  emissions  by  2025.  Our  primary  focus  is  on  zero by 2035, and we will engage with them on similar measures 
thinking about the risks and opportunities of climate change. We  UBS  Optimus  Foundation  enables  clients  to  get  involved  in 
decarbonizing  our  footprint  by  reducing  consumption  and  and assess the options for offsetting residual emissions (as is the 
advocate for and engage with stakeholders on climate-related  programs  relating  to  sustainable  land  use  –  restoring  and 
removing fossil fuel heating installations in our owned buildings  case already for our emissions from air travel which have been 
principles, including proxy voting. These approaches also help  conserving land, and supporting climate-resilient agriculture and 
when we undertake renovations, as well as divesting from older,  offset since 2007). 
investors understand different investment and climate approaches  agroforestry; and to coastal and marine ecosystems – restoring 
non-strategic buildings. For any residual scope 1 and 2 emissions  When it comes to client business, we will support our financing 
in different sectors and countries.  and conserving wetlands, supporting sustainable fisheries, and 
that cannot be mitigated through retrofits, we will invest in  and investing clients in their transition to net zero. Where our 
reducing ocean waste and pollution. To help our clients achieve 
credible carbon removal projects (including negative emissions  clients see a need to resort to offsets to achieve their goals, we 
Supporting companies to mitigate and adapt to climate change  the best possible results from their philanthropy, UBS and experts 
technology) to abate the remainder and to support innovation in  will aim to help with access to suitable offsetting facilities and 
Our Investment Bank is actively engaged in building up our  conducted  an  extensive  landscape  analysis,  which  led  to  a 
these areas.   instruments. The accounting of offsets when reporting financed 
offering of products that address the broad range of themes  systematic approach enabling clients to assess where to invest and 
emissions  is  an  area  under  development.  We  are  closely 
falling  under  the  wider  topic  of  sustainability.  We  provide  how best to contribute to and accelerate climate action. 
monitoring the efforts on this topic by standard setters such as in 
   
the context of the Race to Zero campaign. 
 
 
 
 
 
22  Such as, but not limited to, ICMA Green Bond Principles, Sustainability Bond Guidelines, and, Sustainability-linked Bond Principles; LMA / LSTA / APLMA Green Loan Principles, Sustainability-linked Loan Principles. 
62  2693  
Sustainability Report 2021 | What 
Net zero to finance climate action and support the transition  For each of our priority sectors, we have selected the most 
of our clients  suitable metric to track our progress toward net zero (i.e., physical 
emissions intensity or absolute emissions). Generally, we believe 
In April 2021, we committed to set targets 
that most sectors will be best steered by using physical emissions 
that further align our financing portfolio  intensity. This encourages the transition of our clients toward 
emissions-efficient technologies and makes sustainable growth 
with the objectives of the Paris Agreement. 
possible. In addition, emissions intensity measures tend to be less 
As per the guidelines of the NZBA, we  volatile. A metric based on absolute emissions is more appropriate 
for sectors with less potential for emissions-efficiency gains.  
have prioritized sectors that have the most 
To  estimate  our  emissions  baselines,  we  relied  on  data 
material climate impact in this first  disclosed by our clients in their own disclosures, data from 
specialized  third-party  providers  and  internal  data.  Current 
iteration of our net-zero ambitions.  
limitations on the availability of emissions data required us to 
include  approximations  in  the  calculations;  for  example,  by 
In addition to the contribution to global emissions, we also 
applying appropriate proxy values where specific data is not (yet) 
considered the materiality of our financial exposure and the 
available. We expect the availability and quality of emissions data 
availability of data and applicable methodologies to estimate 
to improve in the next few years. Improved data may be used to 
baselines and develop pathways toward the goal of net zero. We 
strengthen the robustness of the reporting, which may result in 
have selected three priority sectors that include a sizable share of 
restatements of our baselines and pathways over time. 
our credit portfolio and our financed emissions: fossil fuels, power 
The goals of the Paris Agreement can be translated into 
generation and real estate (commercial and residential).  
socioeconomic  models  with  transition  pathways  for  various 
Our three priority sectors account for  economic activities. These models, also known as benchmark 
scenarios, represent the trajectory, a portfolio should follow in 
approximately 43% of our loans and 
order to be consistent with a transition pathway to reach the 
advances to clients.3  temperature objectives outlined by the Paris Agreement. The 
benchmark scenario used to support our net-zero ambition is 
Our emission baselines and trajectories are based on the full  derived from the International Energy Agency (IEA) 2021 Net Zero 
lending  commitment  made  to  our  clients.  This includes our  by 2050 data, which is available on the IEA’s website. This 
outstanding loans, as well as undrawn amounts which we would  scenario was selected as one of the most recent, broadly accepted 
be obliged to provide if so requested by a counterparty. In our  1.5°C models available.  
view, this is the most relevant approach to measure and steer our  As a general note, it is important to understand that while UBS 
credit portfolio toward our ambitions.   will engage in significant efforts to achieve its net-zero ambition, 
the reduction objectives for financed emissions shown are based 
As a new member of the Partnership for 
in part on anticipated regulatory action to support emissions 
Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF), we  reductions by the governments of the jurisdictions in which we 
operate.  
aim to disclose emissions in future 
As the world drives toward a low-carbon 
reporting across our loan book based on 
future, we will adjust our ambition where 
the outstanding loan amount (in addition 
warranted by new projections or 
to emissions based on credit facilities). 
methodological developments. 
Our  net-zero  measures  focus  on  lending  activities.  We 
recognize that capital markets facilitation also plays an important 
role  in  the  financing  of  our  clients.  These  transactions  are 
therefore also subject to our SCR policy but are currently not part 
of our net-zero baselines. Capital markets are relatively new to the 
field of emissions accounting, with no accepted industry-wide 
standard.  We  will  engage  standard  setters  on  emerging 
approaches in order to consider those activities in our future 
ambitions.  
33  Combined share of the three priority sectors of UBS’s total loans and advances to customers, including guarantees and irrevocable commitments. 
3604  
Txt
Txt
Sustainability Report 2021 | What 
Net zero to finance climate action and support the transition  For each of our priority sectors, we have selected the most  Fossil fuels  Power generation 
of our clients  suitable metric to track our progress toward net zero (i.e., physical 
UBS is committed to reducing the absolute  We are also committed to reducing the 
emissions intensity or absolute emissions). Generally, we believe 
In April 2021, we committed to set targets 
that most sectors will be best steered by using physical emissions  financed emissions (measured in metric  emissions intensity (measured in kilograms 
that further align our financing portfolio  intensity. This encourages the transition of our clients toward 
tons of CO e) associated with loans to oil  of CO e per MWh) associated with lending 
emissions-efficient technologies and makes sustainable growth  2 2
with the objectives of the Paris Agreement. 
possible. In addition, emissions intensity measures tend to be less  and gas companies by 71% by 2030  to power generation companies by 49% 
As per the guidelines of the NZBA, we  volatile. A metric based on absolute emissions is more appropriate 
(compared with 2020 levels). by 2030 (compared with 2020 levels), 
for sectors with less potential for emissions-efficiency gains.  
have prioritized sectors that have the most 
To  estimate  our  emissions  baselines,  we  relied  on  data  taking into account scope 1, 2 and 3 
material climate impact in this first  disclosed by our clients in their own disclosures, data from  Fossil fuel ﬁnancing
emissions.  120
specialized  third-party  providers  and  internal  data.  Current 
iteration of our net-zero ambitions.  
limitations on the availability of emissions data required us to 
include  approximations  in  the  calculations;  for  example,  by  100 Power generation ﬁnancing 100
caovanIinslai dbaeidlriedtydit  iootnhf  edt oam ttaah teea rnciadol nitatyrp ibpoulfic tiaoobunlre  t ofmi ngealtnohcboiaadllo  eleomxgpiiseosssio utnroes  , eawsntedim  atalhstoee    aapvapillyaibnlge .a Wpper oepxprieactet  tphreo xayv avialalubeilsit yw ahnedre q supaelictiyf ico fd eamtai sissi onnost  d(yaetta)   ase: 100) 80 600 80 600
to improve in the next few years. Improved data may be used to  b
bhaasveel isneeles catnedd  tdherveeel oppr iopraitthy wseacytso tros wthaartd  inthcelu gdoea al  osifz anbelte z sehroa.r eW oef   strengthen the robustness of the reporting, which may result in  COe (2 60 500 60 500
our credit portfolio and our financed emissions: fossil fuels, power  restatements of our baselines and pathways over time.  kt 
generation and real estate (commercial and residential).   socTioheec ognooamlsi co fm tohdee lsP arwisi thA gtrreaenmsietinotn  capna thbwe atyrsa nfsolar tevda riionutos   40 MWh 400 40 400
Our three priority sectors account for  economic activities. These models, also known as benchmark  20 e /  20
scenarios, represent the trajectory, a portfolio should follow in  CO2 300 300
approximately 43% of our loans and  order to be consistent with a transition pathway to reach the  0 –71% kg  0
advances to clients.3  temperature objectives outlined by the Paris Agreement. The  2020 2025 2030 2035 2040 2045 2050 200 200
benchmark scenario used to support our net-zero ambition is 
IEA Net Zero Emissions by 2050 Roadmap, 
Our emission baselines and trajectories are based on the full  derived from the International Energy Agency (IEA) 2021 Net Zero  World – Fossil Fuels 100 100
lending  commitment  made  to  our  clients.  This includes our  by 2050 data, which is available on the IEA’s website. This 
UBS – 49%
outstanding loans, as well as undrawn amounts which we would  scenario was selected as one of the most recent, broadly accepted  0 0
be obliged to provide if so requested by a counterparty. In our  1.5°C models available.   2020 2025 2030 2035 2040 2045 2050
view, this is the most relevant approach to measure and steer our  As a general note, it is important to understand that while UBS  Baseline and proposed reduction of absolute emissions for fossil-fuel 
IEA Net Zero Emissions by 2050 Roadmap, 
credit portfolio toward our ambitions.   will engage in significant efforts to achieve its net-zero ambition,  financing. Underlying data of UBS pathway and IEA Net Zero by  World – Power Generation
the reduction objectives for financed emissions shown are based  2050 is based on CO2e, indexed here to 100 for comparability. 
As a new member of the Partnership for  UBS
in part on anticipated regulatory action to support emissions 
Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF), we  reductions by the governments of the jurisdictions in which we  This proposed reduction is in line with the IEA Net Zero by 2050 
operate.   scenario  and  includes  scope 1,  2  and  3  emissions.  Scope 3  Baseline and proposed reduction path for power generation 
aim to disclose emissions in future 
emissions are associated with the combustion of fossil fuels and  financing by UBS, as emissions intensity in kilograms of CO2e/MWh. 
reporting across our loan book based on  As the world drives toward a low-carbon  contribute  the  majority  of  emissions  within  this  sector.  Our  Note: IEA data shown is adjusted to represent scope 1, 2 and 3 
emissions. 
assessment  of  the  fossil  fuel  sector  includes  exploration, 
future, we will adjust our ambition where 
the outstanding loan amount (in addition 
production and refinery activities, as well as integrated companies 
to emissions based on credit facilities).  warranted by new projections or  operating across the value chain.   Scope 1 emissions are responsible for the majority of emissions 
by the power generation sector. This intensity metric monitors 
For these disclosures we have excluded activities, such as 
methodological developments. 
Our  net-zero  measures  focus  on  lending  activities.  We  transportation,  retailing  and  trading.  Scope 3  emissions  emissions related to the production of electricity and promotes 
recognize that capital markets facilitation also plays an important  measurement  methods  are  yet  to  be  developed  for  these  change toward an increasing share of renewable energy sources. 
role  in  the  financing  of  our  clients.  These  transactions  are  activities, including in the context of commodity trade finance  We have decided to consider all life cycle stages of energy systems 
therefore also subject to our SCR policy but are currently not part  (CTF).  We  closely  follow  the  development  of  emissions  (scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions), so our baseline and pathway 
of our net-zero baselines. Capital markets are relatively new to the  measurement  standards  for  this  area  and  will  adopt  where  includes CO2e emissions resulting from upstream, operational and 
field of emissions accounting, with no accepted industry-wide  applicable and as agreed. As it is important for us to ensure  downstream processes. Aside from addressing a future NZBA 
standard.  We  will  engage  standard  setters  on  emerging  progress  on  emissions  reductions  in  these  areas,  we  have  requirement, this improves the comparability of the emissions 
approaches in order to consider those activities in our future  established internal targets. As a result, our CTF business will, for  from different energy technologies. At this point in time, our 
ambitions.   example, be increasingly involved in less carbon-intensive or  emissions intensity is below the IEA benchmark, thanks to high 
exposure to renewables, particularly in our home market of 
circular economy commodities, such as in the biofuels or metal 
Switzerland. To maintain this trajectory, we will support the 
recycling sectors.  
transition of our clients and exit exposure in the absence of 
credible progress. 
33  Combined share of the three priority sectors of UBS’s total loans and advances to customers, including guarantees and irrevocable commitments. 
64  3615  
Txt
Sustainability Report 2021 | What 
Residential real estate  Commercial real estate 
UBS is committed to reducing the  UBS is also committed to reducing the 
emissions intensity (measured in kilograms  emissions intensity (measured in kilograms 
of CO e per m2) for our residential real  of CO e per m2) for our commercial real 
2 2
estate portfolio by 42% by 2030  estate portfolio by 44% by 2030 
(compared with 2020 levels).   (compared with 2020 levels). 
Residential real estate lending Commercial real estate lending
40 80 40 80
35 70 35 70
– 42%
30 60 30 60
2m 2m
e /  25 e /  50 25 50
O2 O2
g C 20 g C 40 20 40
k k
15 30 15 30
10 20 10 20
5 10 5 10
– 44%
0 0 0 0
2020 2025 2030 2035 2040 2045 2050 2020 2025 2030 2035 2040 2045 2050
IEA Net Zero Emissions by 2050 Roadmap,  IEA Net Zero Emissions by 2050 Roadmap, 
World – Residential Real Estate World – Commercial Real Estate
UBS UBS
Baseline and proposed reduction path for residential real estate  Baseline and proposed reduction path for commercial real estate 
financed by UBS, as emissions intensity in kilograms CO2e per m2.  financed by UBS, as emissions intensity in kilograms CO2e per m2. 
Our residential real estate portfolio includes mortgages for  The commercial real estate book includes loans financing 
owner-occupied properties and properties rented out on a non- rented-out properties in multi-family homes, or any other income-
commercial scale. This commitment covers mortgages in three  producing real estate. As for residential real estate, the measures 
countries  representing  98%  of  UBS’s  residential  mortgage  consider scope 1 and 2 emissions, and the reduction pathway 
volume, with the largest share being in Switzerland. Scope 1 and  results from future innovations in the UBS offering (related to 
2 emissions (for example, direct emissions from buildings and  green  buildings  and  renovations),  as  well  as  actions  by 
indirect emissions of purchased energy) are included, but other  governmental bodies. In general, UBS expects somewhat higher 
emissions in the value chain, such as those related to original  potential for emissions reduction for commercial real estate than 
construction,  are  not.  To  achieve  our  emission  reduction  on the residential side.  
ambitions, we plan to extend our mortgage offering with new 
products and services for homeowners seeking to retrofit their 
properties and making them more energy efficient. However, we 
will only achieve our proposed targets if, at the same time, 
governments support the decarbonization of real estate, for 
example by incentivizing improved property efficiency and use of 
non-fossil fuel heating systems.  
Furthermore,  government  action  to  establish  standardized 
emissions ratings for properties in their jurisdictions (where not 
already available) is an important enabler for financial institutions 
to  differentiate  their  mortgage  offerings  on  the  basis  of  a 
property’s energy efficiency. It is partly because of the dependency 
on the speed of governmental action on these matters that the 
emissions  trajectory  remains  above  zero  by  2050.  UBS  will 
consider readjusting the reduction pathways in alignment with 
new  methodological  developments  and  where  new  data 
availability allows. 
3626  
Sustainability Report 2021 | What   
Residential real estate  Commercial real estate  Baselines and proposed reduction pathways for lending in initial priority sectors1 
 
UBS is committed to reducing the  UBS is also committed to reducing the 
Lending volume  Lending volume  Emissions baseline   Emissions target 2030 
emissions intensity (measured in kilograms  emissions intensity (measured in kilograms     2020   2021  2020  versus baseline 2020  Notes 
of CO2e per m2) for our residential real  of CO2e per m2) for our commercial real  Fossil fuels  U SD 1.2 billion  U SD 0.7 billion  3 ,781 kt CO2e  (71%)  R(secdoupcetsi o1n,  2o fa anbds o3l)u te emissions 
estate portfolio by 42% by 2030  estate portfolio by 44% by 2030 
Power  USD 0.9 billion  USD 1.2 billion  238 kg CO2e/MWh  (49%)  Reduction of emissions intensity 
 
(compared with 2020 levels).   (compared with 2020 levels).  generation  (scopes 1, 2 and 3) 
Residential  USD 151.1 billion  USD 155.9 billion  30 kg CO2e/m2  (42%)  Reduction of emissions intensity 
 
real estate  (scopes 1 and 2) 
Commercial  USD 43.7 billion  USD 44.7 billion  32 kg CO2e/m2   (44%)  Reduction of emissions intensity 
real estate  (scopes 1 and 2) 
11  Calculations based on maximum lending facility extended to clients (conservative). 
 
 
 
Baseline and proposed reduction path for residential real estate  Baseline and proposed reduction path for commercial real estate 
financed by UBS, as emissions intensity in kilograms CO2e per m2.  financed by UBS, as emissions intensity in kilograms CO2e per m2. 
Our residential real estate portfolio includes mortgages for  The commercial real estate book includes loans financing 
owner-occupied properties and properties rented out on a non- rented-out properties in multi-family homes, or any other income-
commercial scale. This commitment covers mortgages in three  producing real estate. As for residential real estate, the measures 
countries  representing  98%  of  UBS’s  residential  mortgage  consider scope 1 and 2 emissions, and the reduction pathway 
volume, with the largest share being in Switzerland. Scope 1 and  results from future innovations in the UBS offering (related to 
2 emissions (for example, direct emissions from buildings and  green  buildings  and  renovations),  as  well  as  actions  by 
indirect emissions of purchased energy) are included, but other  governmental bodies. In general, UBS expects somewhat higher 
emissions in the value chain, such as those related to original  potential for emissions reduction for commercial real estate than 
construction,  are  not.  To  achieve  our  emission  reduction  on the residential side.  
ambitions, we plan to extend our mortgage offering with new 
products and services for homeowners seeking to retrofit their 
properties and making them more energy efficient. However, we 
will only achieve our proposed targets if, at the same time, 
governments support the decarbonization of real estate, for 
example by incentivizing improved property efficiency and use of 
non-fossil fuel heating systems.  
Furthermore,  government  action  to  establish  standardized 
emissions ratings for properties in their jurisdictions (where not 
already available) is an important enabler for financial institutions 
to  differentiate  their  mortgage  offerings  on  the  basis  of  a 
property’s energy efficiency. It is partly because of the dependency 
on the speed of governmental action on these matters that the 
emissions  trajectory  remains  above  zero  by  2050.  UBS  will 
consider readjusting the reduction pathways in alignment with 
new  methodological  developments  and  where  new  data 
availability allows. 
66  3637  
Sustainability Report 2021 | What 
Net zero to protect our clients’ assets  UBS’s commitment is derived from its active equities, active 
fixed income, index equities and real estate investment assets. We 
Asset Management  currently estimate that approximately 35% of these assets are 
capable of net-zero alignment by 2030. A large proportion of the 
In November 2021, our Asset 
assets that cannot be easily managed in net-zero alignment by 
Management division communicated its  2030 are in our substantial indexing business, where bringing 
market capitalization-weighted assets into net-zero alignment 
net-zero interim target, committing to 
requires  clients  to  agree  to  track  alternate,  low-carbon 
aTxlitgn USD 235 billion of AuM (equivalent  benchmarks.  
to 35% of eligible assets and 20% of total 
Alignment of Asset Management AuM to net zero 
AuM) to achieve a 50% carbon emission 
To achieve our emissions reduction target 
reduction by 2030.  
we are working collaboratively with our 
Our initial net-zero target is one of the largest commitments in 
clients to ensure they have access to best 
absolute terms of the targets currently disclosed through the 
NZAMi. It represents a significant step, given that our Asset  practices, robust approaches, standardized 
Management division is a globally diversified business with a high  methodologies and improved data. We 
proportion of indexed capabilities, as well as assets for which no 
also continue to work on developing 
net-zero alignment methodology currently exists, such as multi-
asset funds, hedge funds, money markets and sovereign and  methodologies, including participating in 
municipal issuers. In December 2021, 5% of AuM were in a 
industry working groups and other forms 
position where portfolio carbon emissions were 50% below their 
respective benchmark.  of collaboration, to address assets for 
This commitment covers the scope 1 and 2 emissions of our 
which there is currently no methodology 
strategies and funds. We have set a 2019 baseline covering the 
weighted average carbon intensity of the respective benchmark  for net-zero alignment.  
for each strategy and fund included in our target. We aim to 
reduce  the  weighted  average  carbon  intensity  of  individual  As well as being one of the first asset managers to sign the 
strategies and funds to 50% of the level of their respective  NZAMi, our Asset Management division continues to take the 
baseline carbon intensity by 2030. We are exploring how to best  lead in other aspects of climate change investing. Our Climate 
make use of scope 3 metrics, given the current range of data  Aware investment strategies reached USD 23.4 billion in assets, 
availability  and  quality.  In addition  to  managing  the  carbon  with our active Climate Aware Equities strategy having been 
intensity of our selected strategies and funds, we will continue to  granted the Austrian ecolabel. We also received Belgium FabelFin 
use our climate engagement program to ensure real economy  labels for our exchange-traded funds.  
transition of the companies we invest in.  In terms of research, our Asset Management business division 
has published a paper titled “Value of a Green Transition” that 
Interim target on net-zero-aligned assets outlines  a  proprietary  climate  transition  methodology  and 
assesses optimal levels of investment in green technologies for 
highly carbon-intensive sectors.  
› Refer to the paper on “VVaalluuee  ooff  aa  GGrreeeenn  TTrraannssiittiioonn” 
Wealth management 
Global Wealth Management has become a partner of choice for 
leading  private  markets  managers  for  their  impact  investing 
solutions, including those that invest in climate-related solutions 
and technologies. We will continue our efforts to mainstream 
sustainable and impact investments broadly for private clients, 
given  our  view  that  material  sustainability  issues  matter  for 
financial performance and our clients’ interest in many of these 
topics. With regard to climate, our Chief Investment Office (CIO) 
is convinced that the net-zero transition will prove to be one of 
the  most  consequential  investment  trends  over  the  coming 
decades. We offer advice and solutions that help guide and 
20% Interim 2030 target
implement this view to the maximum extent possible and aim to 
37% Net-zero approaches exist but signiﬁcant 
implementation challenges employ our knowledge and partnerships to develop additional 
43% Net-zero methodology does not yet exist products and offerings in line with net-zero objectives.  
3648  
Sustainability Report 2021 | What   
Net zero to protect our clients’ assets  UBS’s commitment is derived from its active equities, active  Next steps  Evolving our climate-related metrics 
fixed income, index equities and real estate investment assets. We  As for the transition of our financing clients, efforts are underway  For many years, we have been developing methodologies that 
Asset Management  currently estimate that approximately 35% of these assets are  to reliably assess the emissions baseline for further climate- enable us to disclose climate-related metrics more robustly and 
capable of net-zero alignment by 2030. A large proportion of the  sensitive sectors and define medium- and long-term emissions  transparently. Most recently, regulators and standard setters have 
In November 2021, our Asset 
assets that cannot be easily managed in net-zero alignment by  reduction pathways as outlined by the NZBA.  provided more guidance on climate metrics. We firmly aim to 
Management division communicated its  2030 are in our substantial indexing business, where bringing  keep pace with these new developments and requirements and 
We will work to continually refine and 
market capitalization-weighted assets into net-zero alignment  further  evolve  our  climate-related  metrics.  This  commitment 
net-zero interim target, committing to 
requires  clients  to  agree  to  track  alternate,  low-carbon  improve the accuracy of the emissions  remains, as does our determination to continue leading the way 
align USD 235 billion of AuM (equivalent  benchmarks.   in efforts to mitigate climate change.  
baselines as data and industry best 
As part of these efforts, we are assessing the best approach for 
to 35% of eligible assets and 20% of total 
Alignment of Asset Management AuM to net zero  practices develop.   disclosing metrics relating to our sustainable investments. For 
AuM) to achieve a 50% carbon emission  example, not all sustainable investments relate to the climate and, 
To achieve our emissions reduction target 
UBS will also continue to employ knowledge gained to further  as such, climate-related metrics do not apply.  
reduction by 2030.  
we are working collaboratively with our  develop  products  and  offerings  in  line  with  the  net-zero  The carbon-related assets metric has been updated to cover 
objectives. Future reporting will make transparent the progress  the four non-financial groups as defined by the TCFD, i.e., energy, 
Our initial net-zero target is one of the largest commitments in 
clients to ensure they have access to best 
toward our ambition. Reduction pathways will be adjusted if  transportation, materials and buildings, and agriculture, food, and 
absolute terms of the targets currently disclosed through the 
NZAMi. It represents a significant step, given that our Asset  practices, robust approaches, standardized  appropriate when relevant new information becomes available.   forest products. We have recalculated all previous years’ exposure 
figures using the enhanced approach. We now also disclose 
Management division is a globally diversified business with a high  methodologies and improved data. We 
climate-sensitive sectors exposure related to both transition and 
proportion of indexed capabilities, as well as assets for which no 
also continue to work on developing  physical risks. In addition, we have added legal entity-specific 
net-zero alignment methodology currently exists, such as multi-
climate risk metrics for UBS AG and UBS Switzerland AG. In 2021, 
asset funds, hedge funds, money markets and sovereign and  methodologies, including participating in 
we again reduced our lending exposure to carbon-related assets 
municipal issuers. In December 2021, 5% of AuM were in a 
industry working groups and other forms  (as defined by the TCFD) to 9.9% (USD 45.6 billion). This is down 
position where portfolio carbon emissions were 50% below their 
from 10.4% at the end of 2020 and 10.7% at the end of 2019.  
respective benchmark.  of collaboration, to address assets for 
Similarly, in 2021, our exposure to climate-sensitive sectors 
This commitment covers the scope 1 and 2 emissions of our 
which there is currently no methodology  (physical risks) decreased to 5.6% (USD 25.5 billion) from 6% at 
strategies and funds. We have set a 2019 baseline covering the 
the end of 2020 and 6.9% at the end of 2019. Our exposure to 
weighted average carbon intensity of the respective benchmark  for net-zero alignment.  
climate-sensitive  sectors  (transition  risks)  reduced  to  8.2% 
for each strategy and fund included in our target. We aim to 
(USD 37.5 billion) from 8.6% at the end of 2020 and 9% at the 
reduce  the  weighted  average  carbon  intensity  of  individual  As well as being one of the first asset managers to sign the 
end of 2019. For example, we are lending less to high-risk sectors 
strategies and funds to 50% of the level of their respective  NZAMi, our Asset Management division continues to take the 
and more to low-risk sectors. For our CTF business we analyze 
baseline carbon intensity by 2030. We are exploring how to best  lead in other aspects of climate change investing. Our Climate 
underlying commodities in order to capture the climate-relevant 
make use of scope 3 metrics, given the current range of data  Aware investment strategies reached USD 23.4 billion in assets, 
exposures for these metrics. The weighted carbon intensity of our 
availability  and  quality.  In addition  to  managing  the  carbon  with our active Climate Aware Equities strategy having been 
Climate Aware strategies decreased to 65.5 metric tons carbon 
intensity of our selected strategies and funds, we will continue to  granted the Austrian ecolabel. We also received Belgium FabelFin 
dioxide equivalent (COe) per million US dollars of revenue (down 
use our climate engagement program to ensure real economy  labels for our exchange-traded funds.   2
from 68.2 metric tons in 2020). This is 49.4% less than the 
transition of the companies we invest in.  In terms of research, our Asset Management business division 
weighted carbon intensity of the composite benchmark. 
has published a paper titled “Value of a Green Transition” that 
With additions and revisions to our metrics we continue our 
outlines  a  proprietary  climate  transition  methodology  and 
efforts  to  ensure  we  are  prepared  for  increased  regulatory 
assesses optimal levels of investment in green technologies for 
requirements on climate risk and ensure further alignment of our 
highly carbon-intensive sectors.  
disclosures with the TCFD recommendations. 
› Refer to the paper on “VVaalluuee  ooff  aa  GGrreeeenn  TTrraannssiittiioonn” 
  › Refer to our climate-related metrics table below 
 
Wealth management 
Global Wealth Management has become a partner of choice for 
leading  private  markets  managers  for  their  impact  investing 
solutions, including those that invest in climate-related solutions 
and technologies. We will continue our efforts to mainstream 
sustainable and impact investments broadly for private clients, 
given  our  view  that  material  sustainability  issues  matter  for 
financial performance and our clients’ interest in many of these 
topics. With regard to climate, our Chief Investment Office (CIO) 
is convinced that the net-zero transition will prove to be one of 
the  most  consequential  investment  trends  over  the  coming 
decades. We offer advice and solutions that help guide and 
implement this view to the maximum extent possible and aim to 
employ our knowledge and partnerships to develop additional 
products and offerings in line with net-zero objectives.  
68  3659  
Sustainability Report 2021 | What 
Climate-related metrics 2021 
For the year ended  % change from 
3311..1122..2211   31.12.20  31.12.19  31.12.20 
Risk management 
Carbon-related assets (USD billion)1,2  4455..66   45.4  40.1  0.4 
of which: UBS AG (standalone)2,3  77..00   7.6  7.5  (8.7) 
of which: UBS Switzerland AG (standalone)2,3  3377..99   37.1  31.9  2.4 
Proportion of total customer lending exposure, gross (%)  99..99   10.4  10.7 
Total exposure to climate-sensitive sectors, transition risk (USD billion)2,4  3377..55   37.5  33.4  0.0 
of which: UBS AG (standalone)2,3  44..66   5.4  5.8  (15.9) 
of which: UBS Switzerland AG (standalone)2,3  3322..88   31.7  27.3  3.4 
Proportion of total customer lending exposure, gross (%)  88..22   8.6  9.0 
Total exposure to climate-sensitive sectors, physical risk (USD billion)2,4  2255..55   26.2  25.6  (2.8) 
of which: UBS AG (standalone)2,3  1100..88   11.5  13.1  (6.1) 
of which: UBS Switzerland AG (standalone)2,3  1133..66   13.5  11.7  1.4 
Proportion of total customer lending exposure, gross (%)  55..66   6.0  6.9 
Identified significant climate-related financial risk on balance sheet5  NNoonnee   None  None 
Opportunities 
Number of green, sustainability, and sustainability-linked bond deals6  9988   29  26  237.9 
Total deal value of green, sustainability, and sustainability-linked bond deals (USD billion)6  6633..33   19.3  15.6 
UBS apportioned deal value of above (USD billion)  1133..22   5.7  3.4 
Portfolio emissions7 
Weighted average carbon intensity – Climate Aware strategies (tonnes CO2e per USD million of revenue)7  6655..55   68.2  74.5  (3.9) 
Compared to weighted carbon intensity of composite benchmark (%)9  ((4499..44))   (51.0)  (54.0) 
Weighted average carbon intensity – low carbon indexes and rules based (tonnes CO2e per USD million of  7722..00  
revenue) 
% AuM weighted average carbon intensity below benchmark (low carbon indexes and rules based)  110000..00  
Weighted average carbon intensity – active equity assets (in tonnes CO2e per USD million of revenue)  110099..88  
% AuM weighted average carbon intensity below benchmark (active equity)  6622..44  
Weighted average carbon intensity – active fixed income assets (tonnes CO2e per USD million of revenue)  119988..00  
% AuM weighted average carbon intensity below benchmark (active fixed income)  7766..33  
Weighted average carbon intensity – other equity indexed assets (tonnes CO2e per USD million of revenue)  114444..00  
% AuM weighted average carbon intensity below benchmark (other equity indexed)  nn//aa  
Stewardship – Voting 
Number of climate-related resolutions voted upon10 8899   50  44  78.0 
Proportion of supported climate-related resolutions (%)  7788..66   88.0  81.8 
Own operations (reporting period: July to June) 
Net GHG footprint (1,000 metric tons CO2e)11  3300   75  104  (60.0) 
Change from baseline 2004 (%)  ((9922..00))   (79.0)  (71.2) 
Share of renewable electricity (%)  110000   85  72 
11  The carbon-related assets metric has been updated to cover the four non-financial groups as defined by the TCFD, i.e., energy, transportation, materials and buildings, and agriculture, food and forest products. 
Recognizing that the term “carbon-related assets“ is not well defined, the TCFD encourages banks to use a consistent definition to support comparability.    22  Includes total loans and advances to customers and 
guarantees, as well as irrevocable loan commitments (within the scope of expected credit loss).     33  Based on standalone IFRS numbers.     44  Climate-sensitive sectors are defined as those business activities that are 
rated as having high, moderately high or moderate vulnerability to transition risks and physical risks. For more details, refer to the “UBS lending to climate-sensitive sectors” table and the “Climate scenario analysis” 
in this report. Physical risk number includes USD 4 billion of loans backed by real estate in regions with elevated physical climate risks. Global Wealth Management corporate lending to customers represents 1.1% of 
all on- and off-balance sheet loans and advances to customers, and is excluded from the climate-sensitive sectors analysis in 2021.       55 Methodologies for assessing climate-related financial risk are emerging and may 
change over time, as described earlier under "Scenario analysis."     66  Such as, but not limited to, ICMA Green Bond Principles, Sustainability Bond Principles, and Sustainability-linked Bond Principles.       77  The numbers 
on portfolio emissions only apply to our Asset Management business. Carbon intensity is based on data for scope 1 and 2 CO2 emissions of investee companies provided by a third data provider. Asset class carbon 
intensity metrics are an aggregate of individual portfolios weighted by portfolio size. Time series calculation of carbon intensity and portfolio holdings data commenced in 2021, except for Climate Aware strategies 
where we already have reported in previous years.    88  Year-on-year decrease of carbon intensity is mainly driven by higher carbon targets of the investment strategy. Carbon intensity is based on scope 1 and 2 CO2 
emissions of investee companies, which often rely on third-party estimates. Metric has been expanded in 2020 to include all equity and fixed income funds with a proprietary Climate Aware strategy (active and rules-
based). Metric is the assets under management (AuM)-weighted average of the weighted average carbon intensities of the portfolios.    99 The metric is the AuM-weighted average of the weighted average carbon 
intensities of the respective benchmark.    1100 This excludes proposals related to Japanese companies that included changes to the companies’ articles of association. 2021 numbers include shareholder and management 
proposals, 2020 and 2019 numbers shareholder proposals only. This reflects the increasingly common market practice of climate-related proposals being presented by management.    1111  Net greenhouse gas (GHG) 
footprint equals gross GHG emissions minus GHG reductions from renewable electricity and CO2e offsets (gross GHG emissions include: direct GHG emissions by UBS; indirect GHG emissions associated with the 
generation of imported / purchased electricity (grid average emission factor), heat or steam; and other indirect GHG emissions associated with business travel, paper consumption and waste disposal). A breakdown 
of our GHG emissions (scope 1, 2, 3) is provided in Appendix 4 to this report. 
3760  
Sustainability Report 2021 | What   
Climate-related metrics 2021  Limitations on data and methodologies  
The proposed net-zero pathways shown in this report are based 
For the year ended  % change from 
on assumptions where necessary. They help indicate how we 
3311..1122..2211   31.12.20  31.12.19  31.12.20 
want to achieve our net-zero ambition. We use them as our best 
Risk management 
estimates  and  will  consciously  work  to  further  improve  the 
Carbon-related assets (USD billion)1,2  4455..66   45.4  40.1  0.4 
accuracy of the underlying data and methodologies. Meeting the 
of which: UBS AG (standalone)2,3  77..00   7.6  7.5  (8.7)  Paris Agreement ambition of a 1.5°C limit in global warming will 
of which: UBS Switzerland AG (standalone)2,3  3377..99   37.1  31.9  2.4  require regulatory frameworks that support the transition to a 
Proportion of total customer lending exposure, gross (%)  99..99   10.4  10.7  low-carbon economy.  
Total exposure to climate-sensitive sectors, transition risk (USD billion)2,4  3377..55   37.5  33.4  0.0 
While UBS will engage in significant efforts 
of which: UBS AG (standalone)2,3  44..66   5.4  5.8  (15.9) 
of which: UBS Switzerland AG (standalone)2,3  3322..88   31.7  27.3  3.4  to achieve its net-zero ambition, the 
Proportion of total customer lending exposure, gross (%)  88..22   8.6  9.0  reduction commitments for financed 
Total exposure to climate-sensitive sectors, physical risk (USD billion)2,4  2255..55   26.2  25.6  (2.8) 
emissions are based in part on anticipated 
of which: UBS AG (standalone)2,3  1100..88   11.5  13.1  (6.1) 
of which: UBS Switzerland AG (standalone)2,3  1133..66   13.5  11.7  1.4  regulatory and policy developments to 
Proportion of total customer lending exposure, gross (%)  55..66   6.0  6.9 
support emissions reductions by the 
Identified significant climate-related financial risk on balance sheet5  NNoonnee   None  None 
governments of the jurisdictions in which 
Opportunities 
we operate.  
Number of green, sustainability, and sustainability-linked bond deals6  9988   29  26  237.9 
Total deal value of green, sustainability, and sustainability-linked bond deals (USD billion)6  6633..33   19.3  15.6  As we progress along our net-zero pathway, we will adjust our 
UBS apportioned deal value of above (USD billion)  1133..22   5.7  3.4  ambition where warranted as new projections or methodological 
developments occur. 
Portfolio emissions7 
Weighted average carbon intensity – Climate Aware strategies (tonnes CO2e per USD million of revenue)7  6655..55   68.2  74.5  (3.9) 
Compared to weighted carbon intensity of composite benchmark (%)9  ((4499..44))   (51.0)  (54.0) 
Weighted average carbon intensity – low carbon indexes and rules based (tonnes CO2e per USD million of  7722..00  
revenue) 
% AuM weighted average carbon intensity below benchmark (low carbon indexes and rules based)  110000..00  
Weighted average carbon intensity – active equity assets (in tonnes CO2e per USD million of revenue)  110099..88  
% AuM weighted average carbon intensity below benchmark (active equity)  6622..44  
Weighted average carbon intensity – active fixed income assets (tonnes CO2e per USD million of revenue)  119988..00  
% AuM weighted average carbon intensity below benchmark (active fixed income)  7766..33  
Weighted average carbon intensity – other equity indexed assets (tonnes CO2e per USD million of revenue)  114444..00  
% AuM weighted average carbon intensity below benchmark (other equity indexed)  nn//aa  
Stewardship – Voting 
Number of climate-related resolutions voted upon10 8899   50  44  78.0 
Proportion of supported climate-related resolutions (%)  7788..66   88.0  81.8 
Own operations (reporting period: July to June) 
Net GHG footprint (1,000 metric tons CO2e)11  3300   75  104  (60.0) 
Change from baseline 2004 (%)  ((9922..00))   (79.0)  (71.2) 
Share of renewable electricity (%)  110000   85  72 
11  The carbon-related assets metric has been updated to cover the four non-financial groups as defined by the TCFD, i.e., energy, transportation, materials and buildings, and agriculture, food and forest products. 
Recognizing that the term “carbon-related assets“ is not well defined, the TCFD encourages banks to use a consistent definition to support comparability.    22  Includes total loans and advances to customers and 
guarantees, as well as irrevocable loan commitments (within the scope of expected credit loss).     33  Based on standalone IFRS numbers.     44  Climate-sensitive sectors are defined as those business activities that are 
rated as having high, moderately high or moderate vulnerability to transition risks and physical risks. For more details, refer to the “UBS lending to climate-sensitive sectors” table and the “Climate scenario analysis” 
in this report. Physical risk number includes USD 4 billion of loans backed by real estate in regions with elevated physical climate risks. Global Wealth Management corporate lending to customers represents 1.1% of 
all on- and off-balance sheet loans and advances to customers, and is excluded from the climate-sensitive sectors analysis in 2021.       55 Methodologies for assessing climate-related financial risk are emerging and may 
change over time, as described earlier under "Scenario analysis."     66  Such as, but not limited to, ICMA Green Bond Principles, Sustainability Bond Principles, and Sustainability-linked Bond Principles.       77  The numbers 
on portfolio emissions only apply to our Asset Management business. Carbon intensity is based on data for scope 1 and 2 CO2 emissions of investee companies provided by a third data provider. Asset class carbon 
intensity metrics are an aggregate of individual portfolios weighted by portfolio size. Time series calculation of carbon intensity and portfolio holdings data commenced in 2021, except for Climate Aware strategies 
where we already have reported in previous years.    88  Year-on-year decrease of carbon intensity is mainly driven by higher carbon targets of the investment strategy. Carbon intensity is based on scope 1 and 2 CO2 
emissions of investee companies, which often rely on third-party estimates. Metric has been expanded in 2020 to include all equity and fixed income funds with a proprietary Climate Aware strategy (active and rules-
based). Metric is the assets under management (AuM)-weighted average of the weighted average carbon intensities of the portfolios.    99 The metric is the AuM-weighted average of the weighted average carbon 
intensities of the respective benchmark.    1100 This excludes proposals related to Japanese companies that included changes to the companies’ articles of association. 2021 numbers include shareholder and management 
proposals, 2020 and 2019 numbers shareholder proposals only. This reflects the increasingly common market practice of climate-related proposals being presented by management.    1111  Net greenhouse gas (GHG) 
footprint equals gross GHG emissions minus GHG reductions from renewable electricity and CO2e offsets (gross GHG emissions include: direct GHG emissions by UBS; indirect GHG emissions associated with the 
generation of imported / purchased electricity (grid average emission factor), heat or steam; and other indirect GHG emissions associated with business travel, paper consumption and waste disposal). A breakdown 
of our GHG emissions (scope 1, 2, 3) is provided in Appendix 4 to this report. 
70  3771  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
UBS Group AG 
P.O. Box 
CH-8098 Zurich 
 
ubs.com 
 
 
 