
2021 UK Gender 
& Ethnicity Pay 
Gap Report
March 2022

We are pleased to share our 
fifth annual UK Gender Pay Gap 
Report with you, and for the 
first time, decided to publish our 
UK Ethnicity Pay Gap.
At UBS, we reimagine the power of people and investments 
to create a better world for all – a world that’s fair and 
sustainable. To support our purpose, we have a clear 
ambition to build and develop a diverse, equitable and 
inclusive workforce that is representative of the clients and 
communities we serve. UBS is and continues to be fully 
committed to hiring, promoting and retaining talent of all 
genders and ethnicities across the firm. 
Our entire leadership community play a pivotal role in 
helping us make progress and our most senior leaders are 
held accountable. Throughout 2021, we continued to provide 
additional career support as well as enhance HR processes 
and technology solutions to help us more effectively attract, 
develop and retain female and ethnic minority talent at all 
career stages.
Our HR policies and practices are designed to ensure that all 
employees are treated fairly across all of our people activities, 
including the focus of this report on fair pay. 
We confirm that the data reported is accurate.
Beatriz Martin
UK Chief Executive, Group Treasurer and 
Chief Transformation Officer
Sharon Persia
Head of Human Resources, 
UK & Investment Bank
Cicilia Wan
Global Head of Diversity, Equity & 
Inclusion and Employee Relations
UBS’s commitment to hiring, 
retaining and promoting more 
women and ethnic minority 
employees remains unchanged
To ensure we deliver on this, we revised our aspirations at the 
start of 2020.
Our data tells us we have a representation gap of 
women and ethnic minority employees in leadership 
positions (Director and above).
We have defined a global aspirational goal 
to increase our representation of women in 
leadership positions to 30% by 2025.
30% In addition, we are working to increase the 
representation of ethnic minority employees in 
leadership roles to above 26% (a headcount 
Aspirational global  increase of 40%1) by 2025 and Black employees in 
representation of women in  leadership roles to above 4% (a headcount increase 
leadership positions by 2025. of 80%1) by the same date. Our senior leaders are 
accountable for supporting our aspirational goals.
In 2021, we’ve increased representation of women 
26%
by 0.8% with 28.3% of Director and above roles 
now held by women in the UK. 
Aspirational UK representation  Additionally, 21.3% and 2.8% of Director and 
of ethnic minority employees in  above roles are held by our ethnic minority and 
leadership positions by 2025. Black employees respectively.
1  From a headcount baseline of June 2020
1 UBS UK Gender & Ethnicity Pay Gap Report 2021
A note on Pay Gaps and Pay Equity 
The gender pay gap is the difference in average / 
median pay between male and female staff across 
the entire organization regardless of their role. 
Importantly, the gender pay gap is not the same as 
pay equity, which means ensuring male and female 
employees are paid equally for the same or similar 
role, or for work of equal value. 
As outlined in our 2020 report, we are recognized 
with an external certification for our HR and fair 
pay practices in some of our largest locations, 
including the UK. The certification, awarded by 
the EQUAL-SALARY Foundation, includes an 
independent review by a leading audit firm, who 
monitored our practices again in 2021 and re-
accredited our certification. 
We are very pleased to be recognized for our 
consistency and treatment, as well as outcomes, 
across all our people practices including pay.
We conduct regular and rigorous internal 
compensation reviews across the firm.
We also regularly engage independent third parties 
to analyze our compensation data to ensure all 
employees are paid fairly and to address any 
unexplained gaps. If we uncover any gaps that 
cannot be explained by business factors such as 
experience, role, responsibility, performance or 
location, we explore the root causes of gaps and 
address them.
In 2021, we extended our internal analysis beyond 
gender with a focus on ethnicity with no statistically 
significant gap identified.
2
Consolidated gender pay gap 
figures for UBS in the UK
Combining UK data for UBS AG and UBS Business Solutions AG
UBS Gender Pay Gap Data – Mean and  Proportion of Colleagues Awarded 
Median Pay Variable Pay
The table below shows the overall gap between  The figures below represent the percentage of 
male and female pay. Female hourly fixed pay  women and men receiving variable pay in the 
and variable pay are lower than male pay by the  relevant period (April 2020 to April 2021):
following percentages:
Male Female
Mean Median
2019 2020 2021 2019 2020 2021
Hourly Fixed1 30% 28% 29% 25% 22% 20%
97% 98%
Variable Pay2 56% 52% 56% 33% 33% 25%
1  Hourly fixed pay – compensation paid in the relevant period 
(April 2021)
2  Variable pay includes any bonus paid during the relevant period 
Receiving  Not receiving 
(April 2020–April 2021)
variable pay variable pay
Fixed Pay Quartiles
The chart to the right shows the percentage  Upper Quartile 78% 22%
of women and men represented in each fixed 
pay quartile. Upper Middle Quartile 73% 27%
The quartile bands are determined by ranking  Lower Middle Quartile 66% 34%
the fixed pay for all employees, dividing into four 
equally sized groups and calculating the proportion  Lower Quartile 48% 52%
of males and females in each group.
Male Female
3 UBS UK Gender & Ethnicity Pay Gap Report 2021
Our gender pay gap continues to reflect a lower  We are seeing steady progress 
representation of women at senior levels at UBS, with 
in our Director and above 
a greater proportion of men in our more senior, higher-
female representation in our 
paying roles.
UK business with a year-
Our pay gap will only be narrowed by increasing the 
number of women in leadership and higher-paying roles  on-year improvement of 
and a continued focus on creating and leveraging the 
0.8%, up to 28.3% in 2021 
opportunities to do this whilst maintaining our culture 
from 27.5% in 2020. 
of meritocracy and pay for performance.
4
Consolidated ethnicity pay gap 
figures for UBS in the UK
Combining UK data for UBS AG and UBS Business Solutions AG
UBS Ethnicity Pay Gap Data – Mean and  Proportion of Colleagues Awarded 
Median Pay1 Variable Pay
The table below shows the overall gap between  The figures below represent the percentage of 
white and ethnic minority employee pay. Ethnic  white and ethnic minority employees receiving 
minority employees’ hourly fixed pay and variable  variable pay in the relevant period (April 2020 to 
pay are lower than white employees’ pay by the  April 2021):
following percentages:
White Ethnic Minority
Mean Median
2021 2021
Hourly Fixed2 24% 12%
98% 98%
Variable Pay3 46% 50%
1  Consistently with the Gender Pay Gap calculation, the population 
used for the ethnicity pay gap is based on the UBS employees in 
the UK as of 5 April. Among this population, the disclosure rate 
is 79% (74% when excluding employees who selected “I do not 
wish to disclose”). The disclosure rate has since increased further  Receiving  Not receiving 
to over 80% by the end of 2021 variable pay variable pay
2  Hourly fixed pay – compensation paid in the relevant period 
(April 2021)
3  Variable pay includes any bonus paid during the relevant period 
(April 2020–April 2021)
Fixed Pay Quartiles
The chart to the right shows the percentage of  Upper Quartile 76% 24%
white and ethnic minority employees represented in 
each fixed pay quartile. Upper Middle Quartile 66% 34%
The quartile bands are determined by ranking 
Lower Middle Quartile 56% 44%
the fixed pay for all employees, dividing into four 
equally sized groups and calculating the proportion 
Lower Quartile 61% 39%
of white and ethnic minority employees in 
each group.
White Ethnic Minority
In line with the UK Government Ethnic group definition
White
White – Any other White background; White – English / Welsh / Scottish; White – Gypsy or Irish Traveler; White – Irish
Ethnic Minority
Asian – Any other Asian Background; Asian – Bangladeshi; Asian – Indian; Asian – Pakistani; Black – African; Black – Any other Black Background;
Black – Caribbean; Black British – African / Caribbean; Chinese; Mixed – Any other Mixed / Multiple; Mixed – White and Asian; Mixed – White and
Black Africa; Mixed – White and Black Caribbean; Other – Arab; Other Ethnic Group
5 UBS UK Gender & Ethnicity Pay Gap Report 2021
Ethnic minority pay gap 
calculations are based on 
the employees who have 
voluntarily disclosed their 
ethnicity.
Our ethnicity pay gap reflects a 
representation gap caused by having 
unequal numbers of white and ethnic 
minority employees at each level at 
UBS, with a greater proportion of white 
employees in our more senior, higher-
paying roles. Only by increasing the 
number of ethnic minority employees in 
leadership and higher-paying positions 
will we be able to close the pay gap, and 
we must remain focused on creating and 
leveraging opportunities to do so while 
upholding our culture of meritocracy and 
pay-for-performance. 
We are seeing steady progress in our 
Director and above ethnic minority 
representation in our UK business with an 
increase of 1.2% up to 21.3% in 2021 
from 20.1% in 2020. 
6
Hire 
more
Our focus on hiring 
has driven impact.
37.5%
This positive trend has also been observed 
by women and ethnic minority employees 
accounting for 23.2% and 30.4% of all 
hiring at Director and above in 2021, 
Women account for 37.5%   up from 21.8% and 24.9% respectively 
of new hires at every level.   in 2020. Hiring for Black employees  at 
Up from 34.5% in 2020. Director and above stands at 3.1% and 
we are focused on increasing this going 
34.6% forward. The work we have done around 
increasing promotion rates and decreasing 
attrition rates at all levels has led to an 
increase in our Black representation 
headcount.
Ethnic minority employees account 
for 34.6% of new hires across all  Additionally, we are building a strong 
levels; included in this number,  pipeline of future Black talent at Associate 
Black employees account for 6.7%  Director and below, where we have seen a 
of new hires. This is up from 31.2%  0.3% increase in representation. 
and 5.6%, respectively in 2020.
7 UBS UK Gender & Ethnicity Pay Gap Report 2021
Tomorrow’s Talent Diverse Pipeline – Professional Hires
Tomorrow’s Talent at UBS is a structured program  Our professional recruiting team have worked to 
designed to help women and ethnic minority  ensure all our suppliers are aware of the priority 
candidates discover their potential and realize  we place on Diversity, Equity and Inclusion. 
their professional aspirations. Aimed at university  Additionally, we have worked to develop our 
students, it incorporates virtual insight experiences  relationship with suppliers who specialize in 
and summer internship opportunities, designed  providing diverse candidates from within the 
to help progression into long term careers at  financial services sector and beyond. Examples 
UBS. We have partnered with the 10,000 Black  of our partners are, The Return HUB, Inclusion 
Interns initiative and SEO London with focus on  Partners, Barrington Hibbert Associates, Coding 
undergraduates and recent graduates who are  Black Females, Black Young Professionals Network 
considered for our internship, industrial placement  (BYP) and Women in Banking and Finance (WIBF).
and graduate talent program.
Career Comeback
Intersectionality Our award-winning UBS Career Comeback program 
Throughout 2021 we increased the response rate  offers permanent roles to professionals wishing 
of our UK employees declaring their ethnicity data  to return to corporate jobs after a career break. 
to over 80%. This allowed us to re-baseline our  Returnees are supported with remote onboarding, 
aspirational goals for ethnic diversity at Director  1:1 executive coaching, group coaching, regular 
level and above. This means we continue to  education and development sessions and peer 
consider intersectionality to ensure more people  support – all of which have been effectively 
can thrive at UBS. delivered virtually in 2021.
Diverse Pipeline – Junior Talent Funding African Caribbean Societies
The gender balance of our UK graduate population  We’ve established relationships with African 
for 2021 was 47% female and our School Leaver  Caribbean Societies across UK Universities to give 
Apprentice program 54% female. We also have  us access to a more diverse applicant base to 
strong representation of ethnic minority employees  leverage in our internships and graduate programs.
with 36% representation in our UK graduate 
population and 29% representation in our school 
leaver apprentice program. 
8
Promote 
more
We are fully committed to a 
promotion process that is fair, 
equal and unbiased, with clear 
and transparent guidelines.
37.0% 25.6%
Women represent 37.0% of  Ethnic minority employees account for 25.6% 
promotions to Director and  of promotion to Director and above positions; 
above positions, up from  included in this number, Black employees 
31.0% in 2020. account for 3.3% of promotions. This is up 
from 18.9% and 3.2%, respectively in 2020.
9 UBS UK Gender & Ethnicity Pay Gap Report 2021
We are pleased that we have seen an increase in the 
representation of diversity across our promotions in 2021, be it 
for women, ethnic minority employees or Black employees.
Key Talent Development Employee Networks
We focus on our key talent cycle to identify high  Our gender employee network, All Bar None, runs 
potential individuals and potential successors for  several development sessions for their members, 
leadership positions to ensure equal opportunity.  including the continuation of the Financial 
Additionally, we run development programs to  Confidence series in partnership with our Women’s 
support key talents in reaching their potential.  Wealth initiative covering everything from ISAs 
to Pensions.
Our race and ethnicity employee network, MOSAIC, 
introduced a sponsorship program – Not in 
Your Image, which provides career development 
for MOSAIC members and an opportunity for 
senior management to gain insights and provide 
a platform to support career advancement for 
participants.
10
Retain 
more
Our retention approach is focused on enhancing our inclusive 
culture and opportunities for all at UBS. We continue to 
focus on improving line manager capability, enhancing career 
development opportunities and empowering people to bring 
their full selves to work and thrive.
11 UBS UK Gender & Ethnicity Pay Gap Report 2021
“To enable our businesses to innovate and thrive, it is 
essential that our people reflect the diverse communities 
in which we live and work, and that everyone feels they 
belong and have equitable access to opportunities to 
reach their full potential.”
Cicilia Wan
Global Head of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion and Employee Relations
Our Culture Engaging Male Allies  We continued to offer 
Our culture is key to our success.  Our male colleagues continue  menopause support throughout 
Our people are respected and  to play a key role in creating  2021, recognizing the impact 
valued for the differences they  an inclusive culture for women.  that menopause has on many 
bring to the table and we ensure  Our All Bar None network has  of our people. We offered 
they’re free to contribute their  established a Male Allies program  menopause clinics via our 
individual opinions throughout  which has since been expanded  onsite GP service and continued 
their career. We continue to give  globally with over 70 male senior  running all-employee menopause 
all our people a voice, ensuring  leaders now engaged. This  demystified sessions.
they feel seen and heard and  initiative recognizes that gender 
We’re proud of the support in 
allowing them to feel they belong  inequality is something men need 
place for our trans employees, 
at UBS. As part of our annual  to be purposefully engaged in 
starting with information for 
performance process, we connect  and we have senior sponsors 
people managers and employees 
our people to our purpose,  who regularly speak on this topic. 
to help them understand gender 
helping them understand how 
Our Benefits identity. We continue to offer 
their work contributes to the 
When our people need extra  access to specialist support for 
impact our Firm has. 
support and help, we ensure  employees with gender dysphoria 
Hybrid Working Model  we have the right benefits on  through our UK health insurance 
In every situation there are  offer. We offer a wide variety of  provider, including counseling 
challenges and opportunities.  parental leave options including  and hormone treatment.
An example of this is the  26 weeks full pay for maternity 
accelerated increase in hybrid  leave, adoption leave and shared 
working triggered by the  parental leave (SPL). Expectant 
pandemic. This year significantly  parents are offered parental 
changed the way we work and  transition coaching and we have 
we’re role modeling this from the  a parental buddy system in place. 
top, with senior management  People managers are also given 
also working in a hybrid set up.  coaching on how to support 
In 2021, up to two thirds of  their staff member through the 
employees requested to work  parental transition.
on a hybrid schedule beyond the 
pandemic, and we believe this 
approach will allow our people 
to continue to have a better 
work-life integration. 
12
Constantly evolving 
our commitment to race 
and ethnicity diversity
Race and ethnicity were first  At UBS, our Group 
highlighted in our DE&I priorities  Executive Board made 
for the UK in 2016, when we ran  several commitments 
several focus groups to understand  against four key themes:
the areas in which we needed to 
improve. As a result, we launched 
Investing in 
the employee network “MOSAIC” 
ethnic minorities
and initiated reverse mentoring 
for our senior leaders. In 2019, 
Increasing 
we signed the Race at Work 
accountability 
Charter, showing our commitment 
and transparency 
to attracting and retaining a diverse 
workforce and started our journey on 
Leveraging UBS 
data collection. 
core strengths
In 2020, the death of George Floyd, 
and the subsequent Black Lives  Improving 
Matter Protests that took place across  the culture
the globe, intensified the focus on 
how organizations are progressing 
the DE&I agenda for ethnic diversity. 
This has led us to implement several practices and programs, 
including:
•  Introduction of aspirational goals in the UK for the 
representation of ethnic minority employees as well as an 
additional aspirational goal for Black employees
•  Production of our first annual UK Diversity Equity and 
Inclusion Impact Report to publicly document our progress
•  Launch of a “Race and Ethnicity” eLearning module globally 
for all UBS employees, supported by additional in-person 
training sessions offered to employees across the UK
•  Increased visibility for employees to understand how to raise 
concerns around microaggressions and the impact they 
can have
Our Group Executive Board have continued to monitor 
deliverables against our commitments and oversee our progress. 
13 UBS UK Gender & Ethnicity Pay Gap Report 2021
“We can only be credible in our aspiration to 
advancing the DE&I agenda if we lead by example. If 
we do that, we will activate the entire firm to step up 
and effect change in our people.”
Beatriz Martin
UK Chief Executive
14
15 UBS UK Gender & Ethnicity Pay Gap Report 2021
Gender pay gap detail 
by legal entity
Since November 2017, UBS has had two main employing entities: 
UBS AG and UBS Business Solutions AG.
In general, UBS AG is comprised of our revenue generating roles 
across our Investment Bank, Asset Management and Global 
Wealth Management businesses, and UBS Business Solutions AG 
mainly employs our support and logistic functions.
UBS AG UBS Business Solutions AG
Mean Median Mean Median
2021 2021 2021 2021
Hourly Fixed1 42% 37% Hourly Fixed1 13% 14%
Variable Pay2 64% 70% Variable Pay2 17% 17%
1  Hourly fixed pay – compensation paid in the relevant  1  Hourly fixed pay – compensation paid in the relevant 
period (April 2021) period (April 2021)
2  Variable pay includes any bonus paid during the  2  Variable pay includes any bonus paid during the relevant 
relevant period (April 2020–April 2021) period (April 2020–April 2021)
Male Female Male Female
98% 98% 97% 98%
Receiving variable pay Not receiving variable pay
Upper Quartile 80% 20% Upper Quartile 76% 24%
Upper Middle Quartile 75% 25% Upper Middle Quartile 74% 26%
Lower Middle Quartile 59% 41% Lower Middle Quartile 68% 32%
Lower Quartile 44% 56% Lower Quartile 51% 49%
Male Female
16

To learn more about how UBS 
is creating a diverse, equitable and 
inclusive culture visit ubs.com/diversity.
d.
e
v
er
s
e
s r
ht
g
All ri
S. 
B
U
of 
s 
k
ar
m
e
d
a
d tr
e
er
st
gi
e
nr
u
d 
n
a
d 
e
er
st
gi
e
e r
h
g t
n
o
m
a
e 
ar
UBS AG  BS 
U
London Branch d 
n
5 Broadgate a
ol 
London EC2M 2QS b
m
y
s
y 
UBS Business Solutions AG e
k
UK Branch he 
T
5 Broadgate 2. 
2
London EC2M 2QS 0
2
S 
B
U
ubs.com © 