
2020 
Sustainable 
Investing Report
Your purpose is our purpose
Your purpose is our purpose
SLC Management is the institutional asset management  The SLC Management companies manage over 
business of Sun Life, a large global financial services  US$245B1 in asset under management on behalf of our 
organization with a deep heritage in insurance and asset  clients, who include pension plans, insurance companies, 
management. SLC Management offers clients a broad and  endowments and foundations and sub-advisor clients. 
deep range of solutions across traditional and alternative 
asset classes through our four companies: We share a common purpose with our clients – to 
meet their long-term financial obligations.  We focus 
• Sun Life Capital Management, offering investment  on providing diversified investments  and a reasonable 
grade public and private fixed income; level of total return, with a view to sustainable economic 
growth. We often co-invest alongside our clients, 
• BentallGreenOak, offering real estate equity and debt;
demonstrating a true alignment of interest.
• Crescent Capital Group, offering a range of alternative 
credit strategies including high-yield, bank loans, direct 
Our investment capabilities, aligned interests, 
lending and mezzanine debt; and
sustainable focus, and culture of diverse talent and 
• InfraRed Capital Partners, offering infrastructure  inclusivity combine to provide an exceptional 
equity assets across a range of listed and unlisted  experience for our clients.
portfolios.
The following report focuses on Sun Life Capital Management’s sustainable investment practices 
as it relates to investment grade public and private fixed income. More information on our 
affiliates can be found on pages 24 – 27.
22002200 S Suussttaaininaabblele I nInvveessttiningg R Reeppoorrtt             22
A message from Steve Peacher
At SLC Management, we have an unwavering  initiative to engage with the world’s largest 
commitment to sustainable investing to meet the  corporate greenhouse gas emitters to take action 
needs of our institutional clients.  It is an integral  on climate change. Starting in 2021, Sun Life’s 
Our fixed income business3
part of our history: sustainable investing has been  business operations around the world, including 
central to our parent company Sun Life for over  those of SLC Management, will be carbon neutral.  Sun Life Capital Management, principally 
150 years. Sun Life has also set a goal to invest an additional  featured in this report, is the investment 
grade public and private fixed income 
US$16B in sustainable investments over the next 
business of SLC Management.
The intersection of sustainability and investing  five years.2
continues to grow globally. The pandemic has 
Manages over 
Steve Peacher
accelerated this trend. It highlights the connected  We continue to drive initiatives that reduce 
President, SLC Management
US$137B
world in which we live and helps us understand and  greenhouse gas emissions, including enhancing 
separate the sustainable from the unsustainable. the energy efficiency of our offices. We will also be 
introducing an internal carbon charge for business  in assets
This inaugural Sustainable Investing Report provides  air travel when it resumes, post pandemic.
you with a deeper look at our North American  Signatory to the PRI4
fixed income business. We share our investment  We are proud of the sustainable investment work 
A 
perspective and process: how we believe investing  we do for our clients as an asset manager. We are 
Rating
with an environmental, social and governance  equally proud of the sustainability work we do as 
(ESG) lens is at the core of delivering long-term  a corporate citizen. This work on both fronts will 
outperformance, and something we live everyday. continue to evolve and grow.
Investing with an ESG lens aligns with our belief in  Steve Peacher
contributing to a sustainable global environment.  President, SLC Management
This includes promoting healthy living and fostering 
diversity and social justice, which aligns with our 
core values to create a better world. 
In 2020, SLC Management joined the Climate 
Action 100+ initiative. This is an investor-led 
2020 Sustainable Investing Report      3
Our sustainable 
investing framework
At SLC Management, we believe in investing 
sustainably to preserve and enhance the long-term 
market value and income generation capacity of 
investment assets. In this way, we can improve the 
expected risk-adjusted return for our clients. It also 
allows us to provide our clients  with the tools and 
capabilities to help them achieve their sustainable 
investment goals.
22002200 S Suussttaaininaabblele I nInvveessttiningg R Reeppoorrtt             44
Framework
We uphold our philosophy with a well-established framework that 
keeps us organized and focused on current and future activities.
Governance Investment process Advocacy and engagement
Our governance structure captures  We embed ESG analysis across all our  We engage with corporate issuers 
ESG through both a business and an  investment teams; it is an essential  and advocate through industry 
investment lens. part of our decision making. initiatives to help influence 
positive change.
2020 Sustainable Investing Report      5
Governance
DOWNLOAD
Executive  Randy Brown and Eugene Lundrigan are the executive sponsors 
of our sustainable investment program, and lead our Sustainability 
sponsorship
Committee. They also represent SLC Management in governing 
our parent company’s worldwide sustainability efforts through their 
positions on Sun Life’s International Sustainability Council.
Randy Brown
Head of Insurance Asset Management at 
SLC Management and Chief Investment Officer at Sun Life
From our parent company, SLC Management’s 
sustainable investing objectives, goals and 
outcomes are disclosed publicly in Sun Life‘s 
Eugene Lundrigan annual Corporate Sustainability Report
President, Sun Life Capital Management (Canada) Inc.
Two groups  1 The Sustainability Governance Committee 
The Committee is responsible for setting the direction and 
govern our 
2020 Sustainable 
priorities for our sustainability initiatives. Senior leaders 
sustainability 
Investing Policy
across SLC Management’s operating businesses make up this 
approach
Committee. It also includes representatives from our affiliated 
companies: BentallGreenOak, Crescent Capital and InfraRed.
Our Sustainable Investing Policy  sets out 
2 Sustainable Investment Council  our ESG principles. These are consistent with the 
The Council is a sub-committee of the Sustainability 
Principles of Responsible Investments (PRI).
Committee. Investment team leaders, including the Head of 
Credit Research, portfolio managers, and the CIO make up 
this Council. The Council is responsible for representing and 
working with all teams on sustainability matters to integrate 
ESG factors into the investment process and ensuring that 
our sustainability principles guide our investment work.
2020 Sustainable Investing Report      6
Investment process – we think about 
sustainable investing in four ways
Sustainability is integral to how we make investment decisions 
1
because we believe it leads to better risk-adjusted returns to our 
clients over time.
“We believe in building long-term, 
sustainable value firmly rooted in 
2 We all “think” ESG. We embed ESG thinking, analysis and  responsible investment practices. Our 
application within all our investment teams – and in particular, our  portfolio managers and credit research 
credit research team. analysts collaborate closely across asset 
classes to conduct analysis and assess our 
portfolio of investments.
3 Sustainability is more than ESG and our fundamental credit risk 
We believe the depth of our ESG analysis 
analysis reflects this. We focus on deep analysis with a heightened 
is what differentiates our approach 
awareness of risks that may not easily fit under the categories of ESG 
from others in the industry. We call this 
– areas such as automation and robotics, for example.
approach ESG Plus.”
Randy Brown
Head of Insurance Asset Management at 
4 We do our own homework and while we utilize market resources,  SLC Management and Chief Investment Officer at Sun Life
we base our sustainability views primarily on proprietary research.
2020 Sustainable Investing Report      7
Sustainability is more than ESG – ESG Plus
ESG Plus is our approach to research and analysis, which reflects our heightened awareness of risks 
that may not easily fit under the categories of ESG, such as ‘automation’ and ‘robotics’.
These risks are difficult to quantify, and cannot 
be reflected in precise financial terms, but we 
believe are likely to affect investment returns. 
As a result, we must consider them based on 
judgment and in qualitative terms. The depth 
of our analysis allows us to effectively identify 
and manage a wider range of sustainability 
risks in our investment portfolios, and equally 
important, to identify and invest in new 
sustainable investment opportunities with a 
goal of achieving higher returns.
Our analysis includes studies of industries 
and sectors to generate ESG ratings of public 
corporate and private issuers. We create ESG 
Plus studies that track relevant ESG risks by 
industry. We also examine company and 
industry trends from the ESG perspective. 
Additional data sources for our ESG ratings 
include MSCI, Bloomberg, and rating agencies, 
among others.
2020 Sustainable Investing Report      8
ESG Plus study: Aerospace & Defence
AEROSPACE & DEFENCE ESG PLUS STUDY: 16 ISSUERS SCORED
ESG issues identified Weighting
Within the Aerospace & Defence sector, the aerospace 
and defense industry covers a diverse set of companies 
Environmental 
25%
providing products and services to civil and military 
• Greenhouse gas emissions
customers.
Social 
Because the companies in this sector work regularly with  • Labour management 25%
the federal government and are responsible for national  • Product quality and safety
security, governance related issues are of prime importance, 
and therefore weighted the highest. Environmental and  Governance 
Social factors are weighted equally. The Plus factors add a  • Board strength and diversity
40%
forward-looking lens. • Pay incentives and ownership structure
• Business ethics/fraud
Conclusion: The SLC Management portfolio is well positioned 
Plus 
to withstand what we view as current ESG issues and 
Autonomous aircraft/disruptive innovation and shift in 
potential forward-looking risks with heightened monitoring 
consumer preference
10%
and discussion of the lower-scoring holdings.
• Building sustainable products
• Protection against cyber attacks
• Research and development toward clean production
ADAPTING TO CHANGE – CONTINUOUS DUE  OUR POSITION ON DIVESTMENTS AND EXCLUSIONS
DILIGENCE
We don’t take a prescriptive view on divestments and exclusions. We also 
Markets are ever changing, which is why our  base decisions on our clients’ ESG objectives. For example, we have excluded 
approach to managing ESG related risks is dynamic.  investments tied to both coal and tobacco for specific clients.
We regularly examine companies we hold in our 
fixed income investment portfolios and revisit our  ESG factors can often tip the balance in the overall assessment and our decision 
ESG methodology at least annually. We make  to buy, hold or sell. However, we know that “change takes time” when it comes 
this analysis available to all investment teams for  to addressing these risks. Many companies must adapt – but they may not be 
considerations when making investment decisions. able to meet emissions or other targets overnight. That is why we may not judge 
companies solely on where they are today. We judge them by where we believe 
they are heading.
2020 Sustainable Investing Report      9
Investing in public fixed income
Managing investment grade public fixed income is at the heart of our continuum of solutions 
and our clients’ portfolios. Over 90 investment professionals comprise our public fixed income 
team, which includes a team of credit research analysts organized by sector. Together the teams 
manage nearly US$101 billion in public fixed income investments for our clients. 
Our approach Monitoring ESG factors
We combine deep bottom-up fundamental research  Markets are ever changing and our approach to managing 
90
capabilities with a comprehensive understanding of sectors  ESG related risks is dynamic. It is a key reason we meet with 
and credit. This includes ESG risk analysis on 100% of our  over 200 corporate bond issuers each year, as management 
investment 
corporate bond assets under management. team meetings provide an opportunity to discuss ESG matters 
professionals5
relevant to the issuer. We update our ESG view for each 
Each company we review has a fundamental credit risk  portfolio holding at least annually.
rating, which incorporates our ESG views. We analyze both 
US$101B
qualitative and quantitative factors.
ESG risk analysis applied to 100% of corporate 
bond AUM
Portfolio managers vary their approach to ESG risks depending 
public fixed income 
on the mandate. For example, ESG risks may be more 
investments
Fundamental credit score incorporates our ESG 
important for a long duration bond mandate in sectors 
views as well as a separate ESG rating
impacted by climate change. A shorter duration mandate, with 
assets that mature in a few years, may be less affected.
Client mandate guides ESG risk approach
We use our ESG analysis to make opportunistic investments in 
We play offense and defense
sustainable assets. We also reflect changes in the ESG outlook 
in our fundamental credit risk views. We may add, suspend 
We meet with over 200 bond issuers a year
or remove companies from our ‘investable list’ or portfolio 
depending on materiality.
2020 Sustainable Investing Report      10
Richard Familetti
Chief Investment Officer, U.S. Total Return Fixed Income
1 How do you factor clients’ ESG investment objectives into your  2 Do you ever sell or reject certain investments based on 
decision making? governance concerns alone?
As a fundamental credit research firm, ESG analysis has always been a critical part  Absolutely. Poor governance is a significant risk. In the past two years, we have 
of our decision-making process.  That said, ultimately decisions are based on our  opportunistically sold our positions in a bank (breach of anti-money laundering 
desire to achieve our clients’ investment goals in a manner that reflects their values  laws), a university (failing to report crime statistics, including a series of sexual 
in investing sustainably. assaults), and a state (poor governance of pension plan liabilities). Our due diligence 
process allowed us to sell these positions before any downgrade occurred.
For example, we worked with one of our larger pension plan/LDI clients to 
rebalance their investment portfolio from any fossil fuel or fossil fuel related  However, an organization’s strong governance – even while facing ESG-related 
investments as part of an ESG/ethical investing mandate. We identified issuers that  challenges – can represent a buying opportunity. For example, we continue to 
have this specific exposure in partnership with the client and divested. purchase bonds issued by a municipal water and sewer department based on 
management’s proactive planning regarding environmental challenges.
Another client wanted to divest its portfolio of tobacco. We worked with them to 
define those exclusions. We set a minimum revenue exposure threshold of 15%.  These challenges include the risk of rising sea levels and increased hurricane 
This meant that we excluded producers of tobacco and companies deriving 15%  activity. The municipality has focused on mitigating the risks through diversification 
or more aggregate revenues from distribution, retail and supply of tobacco related  of water sources, conservation efforts and hazard mitigation plans.
products.
We employ a rigorous approach to the monitoring, assessment and reporting 
of investments to lead to appropriate decisions. Our portfolio managers have 
full accountability for how investment mandates are performing and as such, 
monitor market conditions, asset performance and outlook to assess trends and 
opportunities and revise portfolio holdings as appropriate.
For more information, refer to endnote 6.
2020 Sustainable Investing Report      11
Sustainable investing in action
CASE STUDY CASE STUDY CASE STUDY
High exposure to coal  Wins all around for Ottawa  Ahead of the curve 
requires action plan Green Bond identifying poor governance
E E G
The trend toward lower-emitting sources of power such  In 2017, we learned that the city of Ottawa was  We were ahead of the curve in terms of assessing the 
as hydro, wind and solar electricity generation continues  considering a green bond. At that time, no Canadian  vast scale of money-laundering and poor governance 
to increase. Government policies and societal attitudes  municipalities had issued such a bond. With strong  at a large bank. We determined that the pricing of the 
continue to evolve due to climate change, and de- interest, we engaged in immediate discussions with the  credit did not reflect the potential issues that lay ahead 
carbonization policies are tightening. With high pollution  city of Ottawa, who wanted to ensure the bond met  for the company and declined any purchases of the 
emissions, coal remains a major contributor to climate  green criteria. We sought expert opinions from ESG and  bank’s debt.
change. corporate governance research and ratings consultants 
who deemed the Ottawa green bond framework as both 
Coal-fired electric power plants could see shortened  robust and credible.
economic life or become stranded assets. We know it 
takes time for companies to act on their strategic priorities; 
therefore, we look carefully their short, medium and long-
term targets for reducing their coal exposure.
OUTCOME OUTCOME OUTCOME
We have sold  We bought  We continue to avoid this credit
US$165M 20%  While we avoid this credit due to governance concerns 
of the 
and uncertainty about the financial implications of 
inaugural C$102M issue
ongoing investigations and civil litigation, we continue 
to assess the strength of this credit each year.
of our holdings, over the course of 
Ottawa used the proceeds to help achieve emission targets, improve 
three years ending 2019.
water infrastructure, and finance light rail transit. Due to the success 
of Ottawa’s green bond, many other Canadian municipalities have 
subsequently issued green bonds furthering sustainability goals at the 
local level. After the City of Ottawa reopened this issue in 2019, we 
continued our support with additional purchases.
2020 Sustainable Investing Report      12
Please see endnote 6 for important information about these case studies.
CASE STUDY CASE STUDY
Opportunistic investing in auto asset-backed securities Insulating from state and city financial issues
E G
There are many layers to investing in  emissions. Production of electric vehicles 
General obligation bonds from certain state and municipal governments may struggle to 
structured products, such as auto asset- is high on the agenda of the automobile 
fund their future liabilities, such as underfunded pension plans and other post-employment 
backed securities: manufacturing sector, which is moving to 
benefits.
less fossil fuel.
• different parties in a transaction; 
For example, one particular state and city had strong credit ratings, in the AA rating 
originators, servicers, trustees, controlling  The retail auto loan and lease market 
category, before the 2008 financial crisis. In 2003, the state issued US$10 billion of pension 
interests and collateral should grow in support of electric and 
obligation bonds, the largest in the U.S. municipal market. In addition, both the state and 
• collateral credit quality varies across  hybrid vehicles. Combined new vehicle 
the city were having difficulty balancing their budgets.
sectors; deal structures vary by types of  sales in the U.S. (according to the Bureau 
collateral of Transportation) represented 5% of 2020 
Municipal and state credit ratings have been historically slow to adjust to changing 
sales, while a recent study by Deloitte 
circumstances. In this case, we expected the state’s credit rating to decline to BBB after the 
We assess the parent company (either the  estimated that the share of electric 
2008 financial crisis; however, it did not decline until 2015.
originator of the collateral or sponsor of the  vehicle sales in the U.S. could reach 27% 
transaction) and include an assessment of  by 2030. A recent survey conducted by 
We owned 11 general obligation credit holdings in the state. We were concerned about 
the collateral backing the transaction,  the Structured Finance Association (SFA), 
the trajectory of the credits, despite their relatively high credit ratings. Before rating 
the entity servicing the assets and the  indicated only 47% of the participants 
downgrades worsened, we reduced our exposure to these credits opportunistically based 
structure encompassing the deal. report an ESG program in place at the 
on client risk tolerance and price action. Today, we do not own general obligation bonds of 
Structured Finance Level.
either the state or city.
The transportation sector is responsible 
for a significant amount of carbon dioxide 
OUTCOME OUTCOME
Issuance of auto asset-backed securities backed by electric and hybrid vehicles has been  We got ahead of the downgrade and shifted our portfolio to focus on revenue bonds. By 
limited to a handful of auto manufacturers who have issued green bonds, and only a few  targeting revenue bonds, we can still participate in strong investment opportunities within 
have issued asset-backed securities backed by electric vehicles. While only 25% of our  the city and state, but avoid governance issues that may affect credit quality in the future.
structure securities portfolio is invested in auto asset-backed securities, we look forward 
to working with issuers to bring more deals to market.
2020 Sustainable Investing Report      13
Please see endnote 6 for important information about these case studies.
Investing in private fixed income
Our private fixed income team, with over 50 investment professionals, manages more than  60
US$31 billion in private credit assets. Sustainability is a cornerstone for this team. Of our 
investment 
combined investment in private fixed income assets, 40% (US$13 billion) is invested in green, 
professionals5
social or combined benefits.7
US$31B
Private debt assets 
under management7
Our approach
In 2020, we invested more than US$1.2 billion 
in sustainable investments 
Given the illiquid nature of these investments, we place 
Number of  Investment 
particular emphasis on ESG considerations before the 
deals (US$M) 
initial investment. We assign an asset credit rating and  Of our combined investment in 
Renewable energy 7 $192
ESG score to each investment. private fixed income assets:
Energy efficiency 9 $233
As part of our due diligence, we engage with  Sustainable/green buildings 5 $248
US$13B
management and engage third-party experts to assess 
Clean transportation 1 $24
40%
risks including ESG. This information is foundational to 
Access to essential services 9 $506
is invested in green, social 
our fundamental investment risk analysis and may lead 
or combined benefits. 
us to invest or not.
Sustainable investment areas include:
US$7B
Our investment decisions consider several factors 
22%
alongside ESG. These include the client mandate, 
1 Climate solutions  2 Essential services for  
investment time horizon, relative value, and credit  vulnerable populations  is invested in green 
• Utility scale wind 
fundamentals. investments providing 
and solar • Long-term care
environmental benefits 
• Energy efficiency • Affordable housing
As part of regular reporting, we receive updates 
• Residential solar • Emergency shelter
US$5B
on key financial and business factors on our 
• Green buildings • Hospitals
18%
private investments. These include relevant ESG  • Fuel cells • Recovery facilities
considerations. If an ESG issue arises, we engage with  • District heating • Basic and higher  is invested in social 
the credit’s management team to address it. education investments providing 
essential services for 
social benefits 
2020 Sustainable Investing Report      14
Elaad Keren
Senior Managing Director, Portfolio Manager and Head of Mid-Market Private Debt
1 Why is ESG due diligence so important to the private fixed income  3 How do you monitor ESG factors going forward once you have 
investment process? made the investment?
Private fixed income investments require detailed analysis before any initial outlay.  When we make private fixed income investments, we create protections related to 
The depth and rigor of our analysis is spurred by the  illiquid nature of privates and  building, operation and performance standards. We monitor continuously to ensure 
our buy and hold strategy. The private placement process allows us the time and  these standards are maintained. In addition, we engage with major stakeholders, 
access we need to assess the environmental, social and governance practices and  including government officials, owners and operators. If issues arise, we leverage 
performance of these investments. our direct and ongoing relationships with management and sponsors to investigate 
the situation. If need be, we take appropriate action.
Our level of due diligence before any financial commitment is significant. This can 
involve one-to-one meetings with stakeholders, touring facilities and consulting  Our investment in the long-term care sector is a good example. We focus 
with independent engineers, asset appraisers, environmental consultants,  on licensed facilities across Canada, which are tightly regulated. However, the 
insurance experts and other professionals to assess the merits of an investment. COVID-19 pandemic illuminated many long-standing issues in the sector. These 
included understaffing, health and safety, aging infrastructure and quality of care for 
Why is such a high percentage of your investments in sustainable   residents.
2
investment categories like green energy?
In response, many provincial authorities increased their funding to allow for a 
The private fixed income market is typically project based – new builds, upgrades,  higher complement of staffing and higher pay for employees, which in turn was 
and infrastructure. With increasing concerns about ESG issues, governments and  immediately accepted and implemented by the operators.
public and private organizations are moving forward on sustainability initiatives. 
In addition, many of these projects align with the United Nations Sustainable  While we applaud this much needed funding, we continue our heightened focus 
Development Goals. on the following considerations:
These can represent excellent opportunities for investment, while also furthering  • Enhanced monitoring of the care provided to residents and staff
global sustainability goals. For this reason, we direct much of our portfolio to these  • Insistence on the maintenance of up-to-date pandemic response plans
green and social investments. • Maintenance of minimal levels of personal protective equipment
• Prohibiting new investment in any obligor whose primary income producing 
assets is outdated infrastructure.
2020 Sustainable Investing Report      15
Sustainable investing in action
CASE STUDY CASE STUDY CASE STUDY
Financing mission critical  Financing an essential service to  District heating sector – four 
U.S. VA Medical Centers a vulnerable population transactions, four countries, 
unquestionable benefits
E/S S E
U.S. Veterans Affairs (VA) Medical Centers are “mission  In 2020, we financed a men’s homeless shelter in  Heating demand is the key driver of energy consumption 
critical”. These properties are designed to service the  New York City. The shelter provides social services for  in both residential and industrial sectors. District heating 
physical and mental health needs of a large population  men transitioning from the prison system who require  projects, popular in Europe, provide environmentally 
of U.S. veterans. The VA had not received sufficient  assistance with housing, employment, training and sobriety  sustainable heating for residential and non-residential 
investment for decades, while their needs continued  support. clients. They also provide local industries with heat, steam 
to grow. The integration of women into combat roles  and related energy solutions.
increased privacy demands in the facilities. Dramatic  These services are provided through the Doe Fund’s Ready,   
improvements in battlefield medicine allow soldiers and  Willing and Able program. The Doe Fund is a Manhattan- This asset base is well invested and environmentally 
marines to survive previously fatal injuries. The injuries,  based non-profit organization. In 2019, The Doe Fund  sustainable, with most of the production based on 
both physical and mental, are not typical of civilian injuries  sheltered nearly 2,000 tenants in transitional and  renewable energy sources. These include heat pumps, 
and require specialized care. permanent housing. It provides shelter and onsite support  tidal, waste and waste heat. With tightening regulations 
services to homeless individuals at nine locations across  and the move towards renewable fuels, these district 
The Centres assign mental health treatment coordinators  Manhattan, the Bronx and Brooklyn. We helped finance  heating companies provide advanced technical solutions, 
to all veterans who require this specialty treatment.  one of these shelters, at 520 Gates Avenue. energy efficiency and cost savings. The revenue streams 
Coordinators help veterans define and work toward their  predominantly come from municipalities and industrial 
overall mental health goals and achieve their full potential.  partners who have strong credit characteristics.
More than 1.7 million veterans have received this 
specialized treatment.
OUTCOME OUTCOME OUTCOME
In 2020, we financed the construction and development  Our investment in the 520 Gates Centre not only  We have financed four transactions in four countries. 
of built-to-suit community-based medical outpatient  offers an attractive long-term cash flow stream with  We will continue to invest in this sector with 
clinics and behavioral and mental health clinics for U.S.  AA credit quality, it funds an essential service to a  unquestionable sustainable benefits.
military veterans. The buildings meet green building  vulnerable population, resulting in positive societal 
certification standards, and serve a critical social purpose  benefits supporting services that help break the cycle of 
in supporting the mental health of U.S. military veterans. homelessness, addiction and recidivism.
2020 Sustainable Investing Report      16
Please see endnote 6 for important information about these case studies.
CASE STUDY CASE STUDY
From hold to new – energy efficient military  ESG benefits of investing in 
base housing renewable energy
E/S E
In 2020, we reassessed potential issues and opportunities in our U.S. military housing  We have a strong focus on financing renewable electricity generation including 
portfolio. The vast majority of this long-duration debt was issued in the early-to-mid  wind, solar, and hydro. These assets have a long history of sustainable operations. 
2000s. They contribute to lower emissions, support policy objectives, and greenhouse gas 
emission reduction targets. We evaluate all potential investments from a sustainability 
Private property managers own and operate the housing under long-term ground  perspective.
leases with the government. They receive monthly rental income (in the form of 
housing allowances) directly from the government. Issues emerged related to a lack of  Investing in renewable energy projects benefits communities by creating jobs during 
maintenance. Inspections revealed numerous deficiencies, including mold, water leaks, and  construction and project operations, and local municipalities with an enhanced property 
pest infestation. Lack of oversight, budget stress, and relatively old housing stock were  tax base. In some cases, local government or First Nation groups have an ownership 
among the causes. interest.
This led to a systemic decline in quality and damaging headline risk. In 2018, we declined  Longer term, the economy benefits. The cost of renewables generation has fallen in 
to make additional investments in this sector because of these issues. Congressional  recent years and will continue to decline, and is now more competitive with traditional 
hearings put a spotlight on the sector and prompted the creation of a Tenant Bill of  forms of carbon-based electricity generation. Over time, the cost of electricity 
Rights. Since then, several top military housing property owners have spent considerable  generation will continue to decline.
resources to improve housing conditions and communication with service member 
tenants. The response of the government, as well as private property owners, was 
encouraging. All indications pointed to much greater levels of investment by property 
owners at the property-level.
OUTCOME OUTCOME
In 2020, we interviewed former military base commanders to understand the extent of  In 2020, we invested in seven renewable energy projects.
the problem and measures taken to resolve it. We were satisfied that there had been 
We hold more than 
substantial changes in housing oversight at the base level. Based on this research, we 
agreed to hold our existing positions in this sector and to finance new energy efficiency  C$5B
in renewable power generation investments for our clients and we 
projects in military base housing.
continue to invest in attractive assets with strong sponsors.
2020 Sustainable Investing Report      17
Please see endnote 6 for important information about these case studies.
Advocacy & engagement
SLC Management participates in a number of industry activities in order to bring a strong voice to the 
discussion around sustainable investing, to continue to increase our expertise in this area, and to help 
influence positive change. As a Sun Life company, SLC Management and its affiliated businesses are also 
members of and/or participants of over 25 sustainability-related initiatives, including the following:
Broader public and industry engagement
Principles of Responsible Investments (PRI)4 Responsible Investment Association (RIA)
SLC Management has been a signatory to the PRI since 2014. Our  The RIA is a network of investors and investment professionals who 
Sustainable Investing Policy sets forth the ESG principles consistent  practice and support responsible investments that incorporate ESG 
with the PRI, which have always been an integral part of our initial and  factors. RIA’s mandate is to drive the adoption of responsible investing in 
on-going investment analysis and decision-making. PRI has rated our  Canada’s retail and institutional markets.
responsible investing practices “A” in our most recent assessment.  All 
SLC Management affiliate businesses are signatories.
Canadian Coalition of Good Governance (CCGG)
Representing the interests of institutional investors, the CCGG promotes 
The Sustainability Accounting Standards  good governance practices in Canadian public companies and the 
Board (SASB) improvement of the regulatory environment to best align the interests 
SASB is a non-profit organization created to develop standards for  of boards and management with those of their shareholders, and 
sustainable accounting in capital markets. SASB offers significant  to promote the efficiency and effectiveness of the Canadian capital 
education opportunities for its members, including a credential that  markets. SLC Management is a member of Public Policy Committee, 
SLC Management is making available to all its employees. whose mandate is to develop positions on selected legal and regulatory 
issues, representing these positions in an effective way to the various 
regulators and standard setting organizations.
2020 Sustainable Investing Report      18
Climate Action 100+
Climate Action 100+ is an investor-led initiative that 
seeks to engage the world’s largest corporate greenhouse 
gas emitters to take necessary action on climate change. 
Companies include 100 systemically important emitters 
accounting for two thirds of annual global industrial 
emissions, alongside more than 60 others with significant 
opportunity to drive the clean energy transition. To date, 
more than 575 investors with more than US$54 trillion in 
assets under management have signed on to 
the initiative.
MEASURING CLIMATE RISK 
INVESTING IN INTEGRATED 
– AN EVOLVING SCIENCE
ENERGY
In addition to our own research, we use data 
The Task Force on Climate-Related 
vendors and tools that provide valuable insights 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) is a voluntary 
Climate scenario pilot program
related to physical climate risks and carbon 
framework that makes recommendations for 
Throughout 2021, Sun Life is participating in a climate 
intensity.
enhancing financial disclosures around how 
scenario analysis pilot project with the Bank of Canada, 
a company identifies, assesses and manages 
the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions 
We recently engaged Four Twenty Seven, 
climate related risks. Key requirements of the 
(OSFI) and a small group of voluntary Canadian financial 
an affiliate of Moodys. Four Twenty Seven is 
TCFD fall into four categories: Governance, 
institutions. We expect this work to enhance our climate 
a leading provider of data on physical risks, 
Strategy, Risk Management, and Metrics and 
scenario analysis capabilities and our understanding of 
including sea level rise, wildfire and flood, among 
Targets.
transition-related risks.
others. Four Twenty Seven provides science-
driven risk analytics, which assist us in assessing 
the economic impacts of climate change.
2020 Sustainable Investing Report      19
Diversity,  
equity & inclusion
Diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I) is vital to our 
success. As a global employer, we live and breathe 
core values that foster a culture of respect, support 
and collaboration. As an asset manager, we make 
DE&I a key component of our ESG approach. 
22002200 S Suussttaaininaabblele I nInvveessttiningg R Reeppoorrtt             2200
DE&I embedded in our culture of inclusion  
Linda Kong Ting
built on four core values.
Director, Credit Analyst
1 We are client obsessed. We build authentic relationships to truly know and understand our clients.
DE&I is an important part of our ESG investment 
1
2 We value each other. We recognize each other and celebrate successes, big and small. We are caring, 
approach. Can you talk about what that means?
inclusive and treat each other with respect. We create a safe environment for sharing diverse perspectives.
3 We act with speed. We prioritize and make decisions quickly. We are agile – we try new things and learn fast  We consider DE&I with a holistic lens because it drives future 
to get results. growth, value creation and talent acquisition. It is more than 
numbers and targets. We focus on companies’ policies and 
We have an owner’s mindset. We provide relevant solutions and are committed to investment excellence. 
4
practices because equality, belonging, safety, and authenticity are 
We partner across the organization to do what is best for the firm. We strive for excellence and work together 
key to how a company performs.
to grow our business.
2 Can you elaborate on your evaluation methods  
Creating an Inclusive Culture  and the types of policies and practices you seek?
Inclusive Leadership enhances our collective power and supports our ability to innovate and grow. Our Leaders are 
The most common quantitative indicators relate to board 
accountable for creating a culture in which individuals are treated with respect and equality and feel safe to be their  diversity, and gender and racial representation. While we can 
authentic selves; building relationships with team members, valuing their contributions, and helping them create  measure these factors, they do not tell the whole story. We 
diverse networks; and equitable decision making without bias. During the height of the pandemic, we adapted our  look for and assess stated policies on DE&I. For example, does 
Leadership Development Program to help leaders apply these principles in a remote environment.
the policy cover vendor/supplier/contractor practices; does it 
include structured hiring, training, and development practices 
that promote DE&I; does the entity have a history of DE&I 
misconduct?
REPRESENTATION GOALS
Women in managing director 
ONE OF THE BEST PLACES TO WORK IN MONEY  What are you doing to promote the DE&I ideal that 
3
or higher roles from 
MANAGEMENT you envision for the companies in which  
you invest?
23%  40%
SLC Management is proud to be one of the 2020 Pensions & 
to 
Investments (P&I) Best Places to Work in Money Management.  I work with an incredible investment team whose philosophy 
(Q1 2021) by 2025
P&I bases the results on a detailed review of our people practices  applies within. Our leadership team has helped to develop a 
and policies along with feedback from SLC Management U.S. based  Underrepresented groups in  talented group of investment and credit professionals, with 
employees, who contributed to the P&I survey. managing director or higher roles  diversity by gender, race and background. I am proud to work 
with people at every level who truly believe that diverse opinions 
17%   20% and perspectives give us an edge in the investing process.
to
(Q1 2021) by 2025
2020 Sustainable Investing Report      21
Progress starts inside
SLC Allies Acting for Change is an important group of business leaders, 
employees and Human Resources professionals who make recommendations on 
actions to drive meaningful change across our organization and industry. 
InvestHer Global Alliance is our employee-led inclusion network, which works 
to help advance women’s career development within the investment management  “We are on a journey to do better….for our organization, our industry and 
industry. The team behind InvestHer has had much success by creating  our communities. We started SLC Allies Acting for change in 2020. Much 
opportunities for networking, development, and mentorship.  was happening around us with a global pandemic, and political and social 
unrest shining a light on intolerance, inequality, and systemic racism. We 
• Networking opportunities include the innovative speed networking roundtable  recognized that we needed to provide a safe environment for employees 
and virtual book club. to share diverse perspectives. I am proud of what we have achieved so 
• Professional development opportunities include panel discussions such as the  far, and excited about continuing the movement. SLC Allies are working 
recent SLC Management affiliate business panel where representatives discussed  together to create awareness and action. 
their investment capabilities and processes. 
• The Office Hours mentoring program provides mentees access to a mentor pitch  • As part of our journey, we need to know where we are falling short. 
book through which they can reach out to one or more chosen mentors to  We are collecting data regularly, both quantitative and qualitative, 
share experiences, and strengthen ties within the SLC community. so that we can learn and adapt, measure our progress and see the 
cultural shift. 
Since the group’s launch in 2018, InvestHer’s scope and membership has 
• We are committed to providing development opportunities for 
broadened to include more than 225 members.
underrepresented groups. One example is a leadership program that 
will focus on the experience of women and habits that can help 
accelerate their career: breaking through the gender stereotypes, 
Diversity Dialogues are employee sessions dedicated to discussing diversity, 
advocating for them, trusting their voice, building alliances etc.
equity and inclusion and driving meaningful change. They help us get more 
comfortable having uncomfortable conversations. There have been sessions  • Finally, we are developing an ‘Allyship Pledge’, to help our employees 
focused on racial injustice, systemic racism, micro-aggressions and sexism. We  be true allies, through a program of continuous learning, development 
have heard from influential and engaging guest speakers as well as our own  and discussion. 
employees, who have shared their stories.
We have accomplished a lot, and working together, we can do better.”
Kaleidoscope is our digital inclusion program that helps employees to immerse  Heather Wolfe 
themselves in a forum that facilitates learning, discussion, collaboration and  Senior Managing Director, Head of Canadian Business Development  
engagement on multiple DE&I topics including uncovering unconscious biases that  Chair of SLC Allies Acting for Change
prevent inclusion or fair, equitable treatment. We opened the program in January 
2021 for all SLC Management employees. At the end of three months, nearly all 
(94%) employees were taking part in the learning modules.
2020 Sustainable Investing Report      22
Partnering for change
Bottom Line is a non-profit organization with regional offices  Invest In Girls work with schools, community organizations, 
in Boston, Chicago, and New York City. By providing consistent  corporations and foundations to provide financial literacy and 
one-on-one support, Bottom Line has helped thousands of  career opportunities in finance to young girls from moderate 
first-generation students from low-income backgrounds stay  to low-income backgrounds. 
in college, complete their degrees and launch their careers. 
Almost all students (97%) are from under-represented 
“When targeted racism hits the news, 
minority communities.
we can feel powerless to act. A common 
question from SLC Management 
SLC Management collaborates with Bottom Line to teach,  The CFA Institute’s North America-wide Experimental 
employees is ‘what can we do to help?’ 
mentor, and hire. Partners Program contributes to the asset management 
Participating in Kaleidoscope, our DE&I 
industry development of best practices around Diversity  
social learning platform, is one way to 
We run virtual information sessions to educate students  & Inclusion.
contribute, by gradually shifting our 
about the asset management industry. These sessions provide 
perspectives. It teaches us about the 
students an opportunity to connect with SLC Management 
small modifications we can each make 
employees and ask questions about their careers and 
that collectively have a big impact on the 
experiences. SLC Management employees also volunteer to 
advancement of diversity and inclusion.”
mentor students. Many individuals in Canada face barriers to employment and 
are stuck in the ‘no experience, no job’ cycle. Career Edge, 
In 2021, we were thrilled to hire the first Bottom Line  a Canadian not-for-profit organization works to eliminate 
Candace Shaw
participant into our intern program. Bottom Line will play an  barriers to employment by connecting Canadian employers to 
Senior Managing Director  
increasingly larger role in our hiring process, as we expand our  job seekers through a paid contract employment model. Since 
& Deputy Chief Investment Officer 
channels for the hiring of diverse candidates. our partnership launch late in 2020, we have hired five Career 
Executive Sponsor of DE&I initiatives
Edge candidates in SLC Management Finance and Operations 
in Canada.
The Diversity Project North America is an initiative started 
by Nicsa, a not-for-profit trade association striving to connect 
all facets of the global asset management industry. The 
Diversity Project North America seeks to drive measurable 
change for member firms, and for the industry as a whole to 
evolve toward a more inclusive asset management industry 
with positive business results.
2020 Sustainable Investing Report      23
Our affiliate 
businesses
SLC Management’s global reach and capabilities have 
grown with the partnerships we have built through 
our affiliate businesses. While each firm has a unique 
focus, we share a strong and common commitment to 
sustainable investing.
In this report, SLC Management features the sustainable investment practices 
of Sun Life Capital Management’s fixed income business and its investment 
teams. All information, including our investment framework, governance 
structure and ESG investment process, is limited to our investments in 
public fixed income and investment grade private credit. More 
information on our affiliates BentallGreenOak, Crescent Capital 
Group and InfraRed Capital Partners and their specific sustainable 
investing strategies is provided in this section.
22002200 S Suussttaaininaabblele I nInvveessttiningg R Reeppoorrtt             2244
BentallGreenOak
BentallGreenOak recognizes the importance of delivering financial 
value to clients by creating sustainable spaces in which occupants 
wish to live, work, shop, and play.
BentallGreenOak (BGO) is a global investment 
manager focused on real estate equity and 
debt (commercial mortgages). We are empowered by a sustainability mindset in managing  Fitwel9
risk and delivering enhanced long-term value from the  • Fitwel Industry Leadership Award – earned for “A New
assets we manage. Investor Consensus: The Rising Demand for Healthy
Buildings Report.”
Manages over 
The buildings we own, manage, and select for commercial 
US$62B
• Fitwel Best in Building Health Award – earned for the Most
mortgage loans become drivers of progress. BGO has a 
Approved Assets for the Fitwel Viral Response Module.
daily commitment to operational efficiency to reduce 
in assets consumption. In addition, our robust tenant and stakeholder 
• Fitwel Champion and Industry Advisor for the Fitwel Viral
engagement builds community. With one-third of all global 
Response Module.
emissions originating from the built environment, the 
collective action of BGO and other real estate managers has 
Signatory to the PRI4 Canada Green Building Council10
consequences that are felt worldwide.
2020 National Green Building  Pioneer Award winner for 
A+
approach to climate adaptation planning (Canada Green 
BGO is proud to have achieved a number of 
Rating
Building Council).
sustainability accomplishments during 2020.
ENERGY STAR11
GRESB8
10 years as ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year  Sustained 
We have maintained top rankings in the Global Real 
Excellence for leadership in Energy Management.
Estate Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB) for ten consecutive 
You can learn more about sustainable investing 
years.
PREA ESG Award12
at BentallGreenOak through our Sustainability 
2021 Honourable Mention for a Closed-End Fund for West 
• First in the U.S. Diversified Core peer group for BGO
Report
End of London Property Unit Trust.
Diversified U.S. Property Fund and in the Global Diversified
category for GRESB’s Resilience Module for multiple funds.
• Second in the Canadian Diversified peer group for the Sun
In addition, BGO’s proprietary Social Impact 
Life General Account.
Assessment Tool launched at over 400 properties, 
• Third in the Canadian Diversified peer group and Sector representing more than US$22 billion in global 
Leader in Developments for BGO Prime Canadian Fund, assets under management.
and in the U.K. Office, Value-Add peer group for West End
of London Property Unit Trust (WELPUT).
2020 Sustainable Investing Report      25
InfraRed Capital Partners
InfraRed invests in real assets with real purpose to create a sustainable future.
InfraRed Capital Partners (InfraRed) is a 
global investment manager focused on 
InfraRed connects investors looking for long-term stable 
infrastructure and real estate.
returns with major infrastructure and real estate projects  • Certified as a CarbonNeutral® company and will remain 
that provide essential services to communities and societies  carbon neutral as it first reduces, then offsets its future 
around the world. carbon emissions. InfraRed’s new London offices received 
Manages over 
a BREEAM Excellent rating and we achieved a Gold SKA 
US$10B
For over a decade, InfraRed has held the belief that a  rating for internal fitout.
sustainability-led mindset is essential to delivering long-
term success for all stakeholders. This mindset has  • We have significantly improved the diversity of our 
of equity capital in multiple private 
directed InfraRed’s assessment and management of the  Investment Committee over recent years, while also adding 
and listed funds, primarily for 
Environmental, Social and Governance (“ESG”) impacts  sustainability performance objectives for all employees.
institutional investors across the globe
across all aspects of its business.
• Allocating £1million to promoting social inclusion, health 
Signatory to the PRI4 
InfraRed is proud to have achieved a number of  and well-being through the recently established InfraRed 
A+ sustainability accomplishments during 2020, including: Charitable Foundation.
Rating
• Committing US$700 million to sustainable investments  • In July 2021, InfraRed joined the Net Zero Asset Managers 
during 2020. This includes over 1GW of offshore wind  initiative, which is made up of a group of 128 international 
generation capacity across four projects. asset managers representing trillions of dollars in AUM 
You can learn more about sustainable investing  around the world. By joining this initiative, InfraRed has 
at Infrared Capital Partners through our  • InfraRed and the two listed funds support the Task Force  committed to achieving net-zero emissions for its portfolio 
Sustainability Report on Climate-related Financial Disclosures, demonstrating  by 2050 or sooner, and will also set 2030 interim reduction 
the firm’s commitment to act on climate change through  targets for a proportion of its assets under management 
consistent climate-related financial disclosures. within the next year.
2020 Sustainable Investing Report      26
Crescent Capital Group LP
Crescent believes that a thorough analysis of ESG-related issues is 
essential to understanding a company’s long-term sustainability, 
risk and opportunities and credit quality. 
Crescent Capital Group LP (Crescent), a global 
alternative credit investment manager, is a 
leading investor in mezzanine debt, middle 
Crescent’s investment professionals are responsible for  financial market participants in the EU to disclose information 
market direct lending in the U.S. and Europe, 
identifying any ESG factors deemed material to the potential  on how they integrate sustainability risks in their investment 
high-yield bonds and broadly syndicated loans.
performance of the investment. decision making process.
Manages over 
• Capital markets group. Research analysts consider ESG
US$30B factors for every position US$15 million or greater – and for DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION IN ACTION
some smaller positions deemed material to the portfolio.
In 2019, Crescent formed the Diversity & Inclusion 
Crescent factors findings into the overall risk assessment
in assets
committee and engaged a D&I consultant to help 
of the issuer and document the information in a credit
with our initiatives. We have increased the diversity 
memorandum along with the Crescent ESG score. We
of our workforce significantly, with women and 
review ESG scores on an annual basis and modify the
Signatory to the PRI4 underrepresented groups 
scores, if necessary, to reflect current ESG views.
now making up:
A
• Private credit groups. Deal teams incorporate ESG factors
• 54% of all Crescent employees
into the due diligence process for every investment under
Rating for Private Credit
• 40% of all Crescent investment professionals
final consideration. Investment professionals continuously
• 37% of Crescent employees at the VP level and higher
monitor material portfolio investments for ESG risk
developments.
GIVING BACK
You can learn more about sustainable 
Responses to negative ESG developments can include  Established in 2016, the Crescent Cares Foundation is 
investing at Crescent here
discussions with management or a private equity sponsor,  committed to donating time, expertise and resources 
reducing or eliminating exposure and/or introducing  to improve the quality of lives of children and families 
conditions to credit documentation. and the neighborhoods where we live and do business. 
The Foundation has three areas of focus: education, 
Crescent is in compliance with the European Union’s  healthcare and community development.
Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulations, which require all 
2020 Sustainable Investing Report      27
Endnotes 10. Canada Green Building Council’s National Green Building Pioneer Award recognize 
organizations that advance green building technology, products, capacity building,  InfraRed Capital Partners is an international investment manager focused on 
1.  Total firm AUM includes Sun Life Capital Management, BentallGreenOak, InfraRed 
policy, design, or operations, and are awarded based on the project or applicant’s  infrastructure. Operating worldwide, InfraRed manages equity capital in multiple private 
Capital Partners and Crescent Capital Group and includes unfunded commitments. 
vision and innovation, success factors, commitment to sustainability, and impact on  and listed funds, primarily for institutional investors across the globe. InfraRed Capital 
AUM for all businesses is as at March 31, 2021 with the exception of Crescent Capital 
industry, employees, competitors, and customers. More information is available at:  Partners Ltd. is authorized and regulated in the UK by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Group which is as at December 31, 2020. 
https://www.cagbc.org/awards. 
2.  Sun Life’s Sustainability Plan builds from a foundation as a trusted and responsible 
11. Energy Star Partner of the Year awards are awarded by the United States 
business. At its core is a focus on the areas where Sun Life can make the most 
Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”). An Energy Star Partner of the Year Award is 
positive social and environmental impact: increasing financial security, fostering 
the highest level of EPA recognition, reflecting the EPA’s assessment that the partner  Crescent Capital Group is a global alternative credit investment manager. One of the 
healthier lives and advancing sustainable investing. Sun Life’s Sustainability Plan also 
performs at a superior level of energy management and demonstrates best practices  longest tenured credit managers in the industry, Crescent is a leading investor in 
focuses on minimizing its environmental footprint, supporting diversity, equity and 
across the organization, proves organization-wide energy savings and participates  mezzanine debt, middle market direct lending in the U.S. and Europe, high-yield bonds 
inclusion in the workplace, data security and privacy, governance and ethics and risk 
actively and communicates the benefits of Energy Star. More information is available  and broadly syndicated loans.
management. In 2019, Sun Life also became the first life insurance company in the 
at https://www.energystar.com. 
world to issue a sustainability bond. To learn more about Sun Life’s Sustainability 
12. The Pension Real Estate Association (PREA) Real Estate Investment ESG Awards  This content is intended for institutional investors only. It is not for retail use or 
Report visit www.sunlife.com/en/sustainability/. Sun Life has invested US$47B in 
recognize PREA members that are at the forefront of ESG within real estate investing  distribution to individual investors. All investments involve risk including the possible 
sustainable investments as of December 31, 2020. 
and provide the real estate industry with examples of ESG best  practices. Of these  loss of capital. This document is for informational and educational purposes only. Past 
3.  The fixed income business refers to Sun Life Capital Management (Canada) Inc. and 
awards, the PREA Closed-End Fund ESG award category recognizes excellence in  performance is not a guarantee of future results.
Sun Life Capital Management (U.S.) LLC. The AUM depicted excludes BentallGreenOak, 
addressing ESG issues by closed-end real estate funds. 
Crescent Capital Group, and InfraRed Capital Partners 
The information contained in this report is not intended to provide specific financial, tax, 
4.  Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) ratings are based on six Principles for 
putting responsible investing into practice. The Principles were developed by an  Disclosure investment, insurance, legal or accounting advice and should not be relied upon and 
does not constitute a specific offer to buy and/or sell securities, insurance or investment 
international group of institutional investors and are supported by the UN reflecting 
Sun Life is a leading international financial services organization providing insurance, 
services. Investors should consult with their professional advisors before acting upon any 
the increasing relevance of environmental, social and corporate governance issues 
wealth and asset management solutions to individual and corporate Clients. Sun Life 
information contained in this report.
to investment practices. Ratings are consistent with commitments to the following 
has operations in a number of markets worldwide, including Canada, the United States, 
Principles, incorporating ESG issues into investment analysis and decision-making 
the United Kingdom, Ireland, Hong Kong, the Philippines, Japan, Indonesia, India, China, 
Third party ESG data is an input into our proprietary evaluations of ESG risk. Absent 
processes, incorporating ESG issues into ownership policies and procedures, seeking 
Australia, Singapore, Vietnam, Malaysia and Bermuda. For more information, please visit 
common regulatory ESG standards and definitions, this data may be inconsistent among 
appropriate disclosure on ESG issues by entities in which we invest, promoting 
www.sunlife.com. Sun Life Financial Inc. trades on the Toronto (TSX), New York (NYSE) 
providers and is subject to change.
acceptance and implementation of the Principles within the investment industry, 
and Philippine (PSE) stock exchanges under the ticker symbol SLF.
enhancing effectiveness in implementing the Principles and reporting on activities 
This document may present materials or statements, which reflect expectations or 
and progress towards implementing the Principles. Please see the following link 
SLC Management is the brand name for the institutional asset management business of 
forecasts of future events. Such forward-looking statements are speculative in nature 
for information relating to the methodology of assessment: https://www.unpri.org/ 
Sun Life under which Sun Life Capital Management (U.S.) LLC in the United States, and 
and may be subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions, and actual results, which could 
reporting-and-assessment/how-investors-are-assessed-on-their-reporting/3066. 
Sun Life Capital Management (Canada) Inc. in Canada operate. BentallGreenOak, InfraRed 
differ significantly from the statements. As such, do not place undue reliance upon such 
article. 
Capital Partners (InfraRed) and Crescent Capital Group (Crescent) are also part of SLC 
forward-looking statements. All opinions and commentary are subject to change without 
5.  Investment professionals include Portfolio Managers, Traders, Research Analysts, 
Management.
notice and are provided in good faith without legal responsibility.
Portfolio Strategists, and Investment Strategists under Sun Life Capital Management 
(Canada) Inc. and Sun Life Capital Management (U.S.) LLC. 
Sun Life Capital Management (Canada) Inc. is a Canadian registered portfolio manager, 
Unless otherwise stated, all figures and estimates provided have been sourced internally. 
6.  The ‘Sustainable investing in action’ case studies throughout the report are for 
investment fund manager, exempt market dealer and in Ontario, a commodity trading 
Firm and asset level assets under management are provided as at March 31, 2021. 
illustrative purposes only.  Any reference to a specific asset does not constitute a 
manager. Sun Life Capital Management (U.S.) LLC is registered with the U.S. Securities 
Crescent AUM as at December 31, 2020.
recommendation to buy, sell or hold or directly invest in it.  It should not be assumed 
and Exchange Commission as an investment adviser and is also a Commodity Trading 
that the recommendations made in the future will be profitable or will equal the 
Advisor and Commodity Pool Operator registered with the Commodity Futures Trading 
Sustainable investment data is provided as at December 31, 2020. Currency is provided in 
results of the assets discussed in this document. 
Commission under the Commodity Exchange Act and Members of the National Futures 
Canadian dollars unless otherwise stated.
7.  SLC Management’s private fixed income AUM as of 12/31/2020 
Association. In the U.S., securities are offered by Sun Life Institutional Distributors (U.S.) 
8.  Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark (“GRESB”) awards are based on GRESB’s 
LLC, a SEC registered broker-dealer and a member of the Financial Industry Regulatory 
No part of this material may, without SLC Management’s prior written consent, be (i) 
assessment of seven sustainability aspects, using 50 real estate related indicators. The 
Authority (FINRA).
copied, photocopied or duplicated in any form, by any means, or (ii) distributed to any 
assessment includes information on property performance indicators, such as energy 
person that is not an employee, officer, director, or authorized agent of the recipient.
consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, water consumption, and waste. Details of 
BentallGreenOak is a global real estate investment management advisor and a provider 
the questionnaire and GRESB’s assessment and weighting of responses are available 
of real estate services. In the U.S., real estate mandates are offered by BentallGreenOak 
© 2021, SLC Management
at https://gresb.com/gresb-real-estate-assessment. 
(U.S.) Limited Partnership, who is registered with the SEC as an investment adviser. 
9.  Fitwel Best in Building Health Awards are awarded by the Center for Active Design, via 
In Canada, real estate mandates are offered by BentallGreenOak (Canada) Limited 
Fitwel®, the world’s leading certification system committed to healthy buildings for all. 
Partnership, BGO Capital (Canada) Inc. or Sun Life Capital Management (Canada) Inc. 
Fitwel Best in Building Health winners are recognized annually for their best-in-class 
BGO Capital (Canada) Inc. is a Canadian registered portfolio manager and exempt market 
innovations to enhance occupant health and well-being. More information is available 
dealer and is registered as an investment fund manager in British Columbia, Ontario and 
at: https://www.fitwel.org/best-in-building-health. 
Quebec.
22002200 S Suussttaaininaabblele I nInvveessttiningg R Reeppoorrtt             2288