
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
“THE PROBLEMS  04 /
OF THE WORLD 
CANNOT POSSIBLY  WHO WE ARE 
BE SOLVED BY 
SKEPTICS OR 
CYNICS WHOSE 
12 /
HORIZONS ARE 
LIMITED BY THE 
OUR APPROACH
OBVIOUS REALITIES. 
WE NEED MEN 
WHO CAN DREAM 
OF THINGS THAT  CONTENTS
NEVER WERE.” 
John Fitzgerald Kennedy
16 /
OUR COMMITMENT
26 /
OUR VISION OF  
/ Creation, design and production:    / Conception & writing: Vauban Infrastructure Partners/Enea Consulting  
/ Photo credits: ©Artefactory/Artelia/Christophe Boulze/iStock/J. P. Mesguen/Vauban Infrastructure Partners. 2020  TOMORROW
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 03
WHO WE ARE WHO WE ARE
_________  Infrastructure  provides  us  with  a  unique   VAUBAN IP’S ESG COMMITMENTS: _____ “Sustainability is a key risk Vauban IP 
opportunity to make a positive impact on the environ­ assesses systematically through its valuation 
ment and society.  methodology at the investment stage and 
At  Vauban  Infrastructure  Partners,  we  are  convinced   1 3 manages all along the asset life seeking 
that  because  of  the  scale  and  breadth  of  our  infra­ continuous improvement.”
structures, how many people they touch and how they  BALANCED  A HOLISTIC VISION   
impact daily their lives, they are key to the fabric of   AND EFFECTIVE  OF INVESTMENT  Denis Michel, Chief Risk, 
communities, generally providing vital amenities: clean  GOVERNANCE  ESG­criteria are embedded in  Control & Compliance Officer - Partner
water, safe and efficient transpor tation, communication,  Internally, we mix structured  our decision­making process 
education, health or services that underpin economic  governance bodies with less  across the entire investment 
deve lopment and therefore our respon sibility is as signi­ formal information sharing  cycle. Focusing on materiality  _____ “Generating sustainable and lasting 
and encourage bottom­up  and contextualization,  value for all stakeholders isn't only a motto at 
ficant as our passion.
idea generation. The strong  a comprehensive approach  Vauban IP: it is based on a rigorous and 
 
involvement of everyone,  is taken to review all the  extensive methodology aimed at achieving high, 
Our commitment to long­term stewardship and constru­ from the top management  activities across the assets’ life 
robust and documented standards.”
ctive engagement with all stakeholders is more pressing  to the operational team,  cycle to identify the risks 
OUR COMMITMENT   
today than ever and we believe that how the industry   leads to the success of  and opportunities.
Léa Salvy, Investment Manager 
responds to this challenge, to its legitimacy, will be critical  our sustainability strategy.
TO LONG-TERM 
to the future role for private investment and the sustaina­
STEWARDSHIP AND  bility of its social license to operate.
_____ “We believe that focusing on ESG matters 
2 4
matches with our long-term approach and 
CONSTRUCTIVE  Vauban  IP’s  investment  approach  has  put  long­term 
LONG-TERM HORIZON  TRANSPARENCY   improves the asset management of our assets.”
steward ship and resilience at the heart of the KPI it sets, 
ENGAGEMENT WITH  CONSIDERATION AND  ADVOCACY   
both at the corporate level and in the management of 
Maxime Buisson, Investment Director - Partner
We invest to bring lasting  Regular reports are 
its participations in portfolio (climate impact, diversity, em­
ALL STAKEHOLDERS  value to the local  important channels for us 
ployer wellness, data protection, cybersecurity, etc.) __ • communities, not only for  to communicate our ESG 
IS MORE PRESSING  current but also for future  commitments and SDG  _____ “At Vauban IP, when looking at an 
generations. Our sectoral  impacts. Our core 
investment opportunity, the question of the 
exclusion of energy  stakeholders include public 
TODAY THAN EVER. stakeholders’ interest is always at the center 
production from fossil  entities, users of infrastructure 
Gwenola Chambon, CEO, Founding Partner
of the reflection.”
resources fittingly illustrates  assets, providers, employees, 
how our ESG­related risk  our portfolio companies   
assessment is in line with  (SPVs), investees and  Lucas Piani, Investment Manager
our long­term vision. investors (LPs).
2005-2020, 
the development of a unique history
Launch of FIDEPPP 1  Launch of FIDEPPP 2  Launch of BTP IL  Founding  Expanding  The team is recog­ Launch of CIF II   Launch of  Signatory of 
– the first public­ – continued companion­ – enabled invest­ member of  in Europe nized as one of the  – continued expan­ Vauban  France Invest 
private partnerships  ship with our Industrial  ment by the local  the GRESB- top 50 infrastructure  sion in the European 
Infrastructure  Charter for 
fund in France  and Public partners in  public authorities Infrastructure  asset management  market
Partners Gender Parity
Size: 200m the French greenfield  Size: 131m Assessment  companies in the  Size: €1,810m (incl. 
Number of assets: 15 infrastructure market Number of assets: 12 world according to  €540m Co­invest) First PRI report 
Strategy: Greenfield  Size: 120m Strategy: Green­ Infrastructure  Number of assets: 12 and  annual 
mid­market France Number of assets: 13  field/Brownfield  Investor Strategy: Brown­ sustainability 
Strategy: Greenfield  small­cap France field mid­market  report as 
mid­market France continental Europe
Vauban IP 
2005 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
ESG review   Launch of CIF I – entry into   First carbon  Signatory of PRI
of the existing  the European wide brownfield  footprint annual  As Vauban IP –  
portfolio   infrastructure market  review of the  New sustainability 
Size: 900m (incl. €200m Co­invest) entire  portfolio methodology
Number of assets: 22 
Strategy: Brownfield mid­market 
continental Europe
04 VAUBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PARTNERS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 05
WHO WE ARE WHO WE ARE
KEY FIGURES MAP
As of June 15, 2020   From an initial footprint in France, started in 2005, 
our portfolio of investments has strongly grown across 
Europe. Our portfolio has now achieved much higher 
Finland
geographical diversification with a good balance 
3.6bn 8 47
€ between Northern and Southern regions.
Norway
North
countries clients Atlantic
French 
Ocean
  Guyana
 
ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT
37 60
associates successful  France
investments
Portugal
4 KEY SECTORS Spain Italy
Mediterranean 
1 2 3 4 Sea
Transport   Social infrastructure   Public utilities   Digital infrastructure 
(tramways, motorways,  (hospital, school,   (heating networks,   systems
parking garages,   leisure, justice) sewage maintenance,  
INVESTED IN 2019
high-speed rail lines) waste management,  
electricity)
Asset Sector Sub-sector Turnover k€/new capex k€ Geography
ALTISERVICE Transport Leisure 27,025 France
DCIC Digital Optic fiber 564,074 France
IBYS Transport  Bus Network 135,000 France
ICARE  Transport Airport 281,476 Central and Southern Europe
INDIGO Transport Parking 968,554 France
         5 FUNDS  Presence in  LOISTE OY Utilities Multi-utilities 156,431 Finland
         CONTINENTAL  PORT ADHOC Transport Port 9,823 France
FIDEPPP, FIDEPPP2, BTP Impact Local,  PROXISERVE Utilities Multi-utilities 411,435 France
EUROPE
CIF I, CIF II THD EURE Digital Optic fiber 258,000 France
06 VAUBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PARTNERS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 07
WHO WE ARE WHO WE ARE
KEY FIGURES
2020 CARBON INTENSITY  ● Main emission 
AT PORTFOLIO LEVEL drivers:
(IN TCO EQ P.A. PER M€ INVESTED) ­ Electricity 
2
consumption from  
end­customers’ 
SOCIAL TRANSPORT DIGITAL GRESB DATA  internet use
● Mitigation ways:
We invest in managing  We have been investing  Successful investments  
­ An indirect benefit 
and refurbishing social  in various mobility  PARKING  in the digital network  of denser digital 
101
buildings with key  solutions and enabling   There are over 2 million  support the rollout of  infrastructure networks 
purposes, to serve  a total distance  parking spots provided to the  15,000km of optic fiber  Induced  is the encouragement 
local communities.  of 9,000,000km  public, directly advocating  networks in the country. As one of the GRESB  14 of less power­ 
green mobility and more  Infrastructure founding  intensive behaviors  
traveled through  Avoided
efficient use of public space. members, we have  (remote work, smart 
public transportation  participated in its annual  metering, etc.) ● Main emission 
in the past year. assessment ever   ­ Nationwide objectives  drivers:
since it was founded   are set to incorporate   ­ Energy needs for 
OPTIC FIBER    in 2015. The number   a growing proportion   business­as­usual 
HOSPITAL    PORT The additional 6 million  of participants of this  Awareness and action of renewable   asset operations 
2b,e0e0n0 e hqousipppiteadl b aetd esa hcahv  e  Thhareb 1o0r so hwanveed im anpdle mmaennategde d  FcoTvTeHr asgoec koeft 1s3,  rmepilrlieosne nting  i1cn0oi7tvi aeintrifivnreag sh t3ra9us3c n tauosrwsee  rfteusan.cdhse d  Wea x icttehor mtnhapel r  seeuhxpeppneosrtirvste  wo vfe ie hwa ve  egneenregriaetsio inn tmo itxh.e power  (●p Mowiteigr,a hteioant) ways:
unit to provide vital medical  URBAN  eco terminals to provide  inhabitants, have accelerated  In 2019, our participating  of our  annual carbon  ­ Nationwide 
services to the patients  MOBILITY all the necessary utilities  the development of universal  funds earned 3* in the  footprint  and can assess  objectives are set  
in need. The 21km of the urban  in a smart and energy­  internet connectivity in France.  GRESB assessment,   the measures that need  to incorporate a 
transport network boosts  saving way. with 7 of our investments  to be taken at the portfolio  DIGITAL gofr orewninegw apbrolep ortion 
mobility within the city.  being first in their asset  or asset level to reduce it.
energies into the 
The well­designed system  category: 138
power generation 
also facilitates various  Induced 
SCHOOL mix
business activities which 
9ihenqa8 ovu,0euit0 rar ee0bcd lseeut iuqcvduaetaedioln iatntynsa   eeiln dinncurslouctlisalteuitvidtoei on an.nsd   itfnohdre i irncevitceyts’lsyt o ainrtstcr.raecatsiveesn ess  ToAhf IgeR oaPossdOest Ras nsTdu  p14p,o70rt9 a,i2r 7t9ra vel  ToPhnUely i BennvLesIusCtrmin egUn etTsss IaeLrneIt TniaoIl Et S di●●na  fACrtaaxh sitrotryransuneacs ltiimnsu f–rires sa so(siltoceriniuascul truer)e –  Avo0ided ­sp cEuhnbeelimcrg ieyns ce teffhnirctoiiveuengsch.y  
passengers in 2019. energy access but
● Honoris – social  ● Main emission 
help to achieve a more  infrastructure (healthcare) drivers:
sustainable energy  ● Insula (Son Espases) –   ­ Mostly airline and 
supply in the region.  social infrastructure  maritime­transport  SOCIAL
RAILWAY
LEISURE   280km of railways serve  (healthcare) related 7
The Vélodrome Stadium  as a greener alternative  ● Opale Defense – social  ● Mitigation ways: Induced 
with a capacity of 67,000  to travel across borders. infrastructure (other) ­ Focus on cleaner 
alternatives for  0
people in Marseille,  ● Udicité – social 
for instance, was renovated  infrastructure (education) mobility needs of the  2020 CARBON INTENSITY Avoided
in 2019. Users of the venue  ELECTRICAL ● Urbis Park Infrastructure  communities served,  RESULTS – PER KEY SECTOR
with railway and electric 
can enjoy the upcoming  GRID  – transportation vehicles leading the  (IN TCO2 EQ P.A. PER M€ INVESTED)
football matches, high­profile  Over 13,000km of electrical 
HIGHWAY way towards a neutral 
concerts and world­class  grids have been supporting not 
conferences. 508km of highways  only the electricity supply but  carbon footprint 
have allowed goods and  also the opportunity to integrate  ­ All our airports have 
peffeiocpielen ttloy  abned t rcaonsstp­eoffrteecdt ively  renewables in the main grid. a2 cohfi eAvirepdo trht eC alervbeol n  PUBLIC UTILITIES ●d rMivaeirns :emission 
between regions. Accreditation (ACA)  72 ­ Linked to fossil­fuel 
JUSTICE  since 2017 and two of  Induced  power generation 
them “3+ Neutrality”  systems
Proper management  
since 2019.  56 ● Mitigation ways:
of courthouses and prisons  DISTRICT HEATING  Avoided ­ Increased 
has contributed to  
NETWORK TRANSPORT investments 
promoting access to justice  
in more 
for all.  These infrastructures  113
250km of district heating  environmentally 
are indispensable for   Induced 
network was in place to  friendly power 
upholding justice which  
facilitates social stability   deliver heating and cooling  4 generation assets
and long­term development. services to the community  Avoided ­ Compensation 
ever looking to ever greener  measures to 
source of energy. counterbalance
08 VAUBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PARTNERS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 09
LONG-TERM   
PUBLIC UTILITIES TRANSPORT
By investing in public utilities,  Efficient and safe 
namely district heating,  transportation services are 
electricity grids, water  crucial enablers for 
INVESTORS  
treatment, and EV charging,  satisfying essential and 
we support the provision of  transversal – personal  
essential services to local  as well as commercial – 
communities. The companies  mobility needs. From 
DEDICATED TO… we invest in work to ensure  highways and tramways  
the sustainability and   that serve the local 
well-being of their clients   communities to ports 
and their direct environments.  and airports that allow  
To promote the long-term  worldwide trades and 
stability of the network   travels, transportation 
supply, we support various  facilitates both social and 
measures aimed at improving  economic development.  
At Vauban Infrastructure Partners,  the assets’ performance,   Our transportation assets 
we invest in essential infrastructure  their resource consumption  support the necessary 
and look for new assets that  efficiency, as well as   connections for future 
generate value for the community. the decarbonization efforts  generations to thrive. 
undertaken, including   We invest in sustainable 
but not limited to renewable  assets to ensure the mobility 
energies integration.  __ • solutions are safe, reliable, 
and resilient.  __ •
DIGITAL  SOCIAL  
INFRASTRUCTURE INFRASTRUCTURE
Ever since our very first  We invest in hospitals, 
investment in the  schools, universities, leisure 
telecommunications  and administrative buildings. 
sector in 2009, we have  These projects are  
been foreseeing market  managed throughout 
opportunities for digital  their life cycle to ensure 
innovation integration,   these infrastructures 
and more importantly,   are in the best condition 
their immense subsequent  to deliver their core mission 
social benefits. We are  and hence long-lasting 
developing the necessary  benefits for all. When  INVESTING IN  
optic fiber networks  operating these facilities, 
to reduce digital access  our assets apply the 
discrepancies across  highest standards to meet 
Europe and supporting  the different needs and 
the development of  expectations of their  INFRASTRUCTURE  
connected cities.  communities, paying 
These infrastructures play  particular attention to 
a prominent role in fostering  universal access, energy 
communication and  efficiency and security.  __ •
SERVING SOCIETY.
promoting equal access  
to virtual education, finance, 
and healthcare services.   __ •
10 VAUBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PARTNERS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 11
OUR APPROACH OUR APPROACH
DIGITAL 
INFRASTRUCTURE 
ICARE 
We have taken a new step  
CIF II 
to expand our digital  
Capex: 792,764 k€ infrastructure and more  
Total annual users:  14,709,279 
importantly at the  
Our first investment in the aviation   operational level of the  
sector. The airports have achieved   value chain. It is a strategic  
Airport Carbon Accreditation  
move for us to align our 
(ACA) with their structured and  
efficient climate strategies. interests with those of our 
operator Axione by taking 
a minority stake in Axione.
IBYS 
PUBLIC UTILITIES 
FIDEPPP 2
THD EURE 
We have looked for investments  
Capex: 135,000 k€ CIF II/FIDEPPP 2
that are bringing more than  
Km of urban transport: 10
essential energy to people.   Capex: 258,000 k€
Road asset to be constructed   Km of optical fiber: 650
In fact we favor those that
for urban public bus  
contribute actively to more transit. It will provide more   This project refers to the  
TRANSPORT
advanced energy services  efficient mobility by easing   technical and commercial  
We have increased   traffic congestion.  operation of the Superfast  
in a sustainable manner. Broadband facilities in the 
the variety of investments  
department of Eure,  
in the transportation  achieving universal access  
for the local communities  
sector with diverse  
by the end of 2021,  
PROXISERVE mobility solutions, yet  ALTISERVICE  actively contributing   
CIF II / FIDEPPP 2 with the same focus  BTPIL to the region’s attractiveness  
and competitiveness.
on the sustainability 
Turnover:   Turnover: 27,025 k€
411,435 k€ performance and potential  Capacity: 1,000,000 skier days / year
2019  Smart meters (heat and water): 
of the projects.
3,975,000 Key operator of Pyrenean ski  
DCIC 
EV charging stations:   resorts with sustainability  
BTPIL / FIDEPPP 2 / CIF I / CIF II
57,000 goals (e.g. no use of artificial snow)  
certified with the ISO 14001  
Turnover:  564,074 k€
INVESTMENTS Proxiserve is a leading French   (environmental) and 9001 standards. Km of optical fiber: 187,000
player in the heat and  
water smart metering markets,  
Additional investment with Axione,  
as well as the EV charging   PORT ADHOC 
but this time at the operational  
segment. BTPIL       
level of this independent player  
     
in the digital infrastructure sector, 
Number of  parking spaces: 8,600 INDIGO 
provisioning services across  
Turnover: 9,823 k€ CIF II 
the value chain, from design,  
LOISTE OY Port Adhoc is positioning itself   Turnover: 968,554 k€ construction, operation  
and maintenance services of  
As Vauban Infrastructure Partners is  CIF II  as a breakthrough company   Number of parking spaces: 2,300,000
digital network for the urban and  
dedicated to the development,  
evolving and growing, our DNA remains  rural communities in France. 
Turnover:  156,431 k€ management and operation   Indigo is a world leader in operating 
intact. We stay focused on generating  Km of electricity grid: 13,352 of marinas in Europe.   and driving development in  
lasting value for the people. Our 2019  Km of district heating network: 122 It has deployed advanced digital   parking as well as providing  
solutions to provide users   individual mobility services,  
investments continue our historical strategy,  Investment aiming to facilitate   with all the necessary ports   including green charging solutions.
exploring new infrastructures and business  the long­term development   (water, electricity, internet, etc.)  
of Loiste, the fifth largest electricity  in an energy efficient and smart  
models, holding genuine potential in unlocking 
retailer in Finland. way such as the network  
sustainable growth. of internalized eco­terminals.
12 VAUBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PARTNERS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 13
OUR APPROACH 2019 INVESTMENTS OUR APPROACH
WHY BEING   IMPACTING INVESTMENT  BENCHMARKING ESG  SUSTAINABLE 
DECISIONS PERFORMANCES 
A LONG-TERM  DEVELOPMENT 
INVESTOR IS  Integrating ESG factors as one   Participating in a meaningful   MATTERS TO 
of the key decision criteria at all   comparison of assets’ ESG  
NOT ENOUGH VAUBAN IP’S
stages of the investment   performance with sectoral peers  
cycle, to screen and differentiate   (e.g. through GRESB) to encourage   INVESTORS
the investment opportunities   constant improvement  
Our sustainability ambition   and projects based on their   throughout the assets’ life cycles BRUNEL BNP PARIBAS CARDIF
extra­financial performance
is beyond investing responsibly. Transparency, 
“The investment philosophy of the Vauban  “BNP Paribas Cardif is a leading institutional 
We do not stop at passively   INTEGRATING ESG  responsibility and  Infrastructure Partners team aligns with  investor in France and Europe within the 
avoiding negative impact.   LEVERAGING OUR  CONSIDERATIONS  engagement are   that of Brunel’s, being based on the conviction  Private Markets asset class. For several years, 
SECTORAL KNOWLEDGE that integrating sustainable development  BNP Paribas Cardif has adopted and 
We strive to maximize our impact  at the heart of the close  themes can generate solutions that create  implemented specific selection processes 
At the corporate level
within our sphere of influence   Onboarding our investment   Developing responsible internal   relationships that  value for investors over the long term,  integrating ESG criteria at the level of 
not only by better identifying risks, but also  the management companies, as well as at 
to push for ESG integration   teams since the creation   policies and formalizing   Vauban IP has built 
by identifying investment opportunities  the level of the underlying funds and their 
of the methodological framework   our sustainability requirements  
in the infrastructure investment  over the years  in a changing world. Vauban IP being launch   strategies. As an insurer, BNP Paribas Cardif 
to leverage on their expertise   in the contractual document  
ecosystem, by: to optimize our new sustainable   to obtain compliance  with its investors. in 2019, we are pleased to see the team   manages entrusted savings with a long­term 
continuing its commitment to transparency  perspective: it is not only a question of 
investment strategy with these principles from  
Servicing more than   by participating in both UN PRI and GRESB  managing a desired risk­return profile but 
our long­term partners
50 institutional  assessments and we are keen to learn   also investing in essential infrastructures 
more about the implementation of Vauban IP’s  to support a sustainable economy. 
APPLYING ROBUST  investors worldwide, 
enhanced framework for ESG integration  BNP Paribas Cardif intends to continue 
METHODOLOGIES  ADAPTING TO  
Vauban IP values  which now also incorporates SDGs.   investing to finance social, digital and 
A RAPIDLY 
With CIF II having a 25­year investment   transportation infrastructure assets 
the sustainable and 
Monitoring, measuring   EVOLVING MARKET horizon, it was very important for Brunel  to support local communities in France 
and evaluating our assets’ ESG   reoccurring nature   to gain reassurance that the Vauban IP team  and in Europe. Investing in the Vauban 
performance with both qualitative   Constantly looking for   of the established  assesses potential investments’ contribution   Infrastructure Partners’ funds makes it 
and quantitative operational   opportunities to step up our   to sustainability in multiple areas: climate   possible to make a significant contribution 
indicators, to address and/or   efforts,  which include mitigating   relationships,  stability, resource security, healthy ecosystem,  to these essential infrastructure projects 
leverage their material impacts  our carbon footprint, taking   the catalyst of which   basic needs, well­being and decent work,   and to address current and future 
part in voluntary pro bono projects   and in particular that they embed climate  challenges, such as those in the transport, 
is the mutual objective 
and aligning with the most   change risks into the risk­return analysis.  health and education sectors, which are 
BEING TRANSPARENT ambitious regulatory frameworks   of contributing  Furthermore the team work to monitor and  major themes for BNP Paribas Cardif.”
(e.g. EU taxonomy) to developing the  reduce ESG risks to improve each investment’s 
Holding all key stakeholders   sustainability over the ownership period.   Olivier Hereil, 
accountable through regular   sustainable industry. As such, Brunel looks forward to an open   Deputy Chief Executive Officer, 
communications in various reports. and productive relationship with Vauban IP  Asset Management
Facilitating the development of  for many years to come.”
responsible investment strategies  
by publicly endorsing related   Richard Fanshawe, 
initiatives and sharing our knowledge  Head of Private Market
and experience of smoothly 
implementing a practical  
methodological framework 
GEOGRAPHY OF INVESTORS  TYPOLOGY OF INVESTORS
Netherlands Sweden
Luxembourg Belgium Other 1% 13% Financial 
institutions
Korea France
Japan Germany 7% Funds of 
funds
Pension 
41%
funds
38% Insurance 
companies
UK
Italy
14 VAUBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PARTNERS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 15
OUR COMMITMENT OUR COMMITMENT
_________  Vauban  Infrastructure  “Trans portation” before applying it to  KEY 
MATERIALITY & 
Partners seeks to define the highest  nine other sectors, to date. The follow­ PERFORMANCE 
CONTEXTUALIZATION ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL 
standards  regarding  the  sustain- ing  key  achievements  demonstrate 
INDICATORS
ability  management  of  its  invest- our methodology’s added­value: 
● Annual average daily  ● Road accidents per 
ments applying an ambitious ESG  ● Evaluate SDG­related risks and oppor­ To understand the   traffic (vehicle  million vehicle km  
strategy. For its smooth implementa­ tunities required at each of the invest­ environmental, social  kilometers traveled)  per year (number)
and economic impact  and breakdown   ● Level of respondent 
tion, we constructed an overarching  ment phases  With material impacts 
of each investment  of types of vehicle satisfaction to customer 
methodology with which our invest­ ● Support  and  enhance  the  annual   sector, a materiality analysis  mapped under both  ● Litigation or  satisfaction surveys  
ment team can conduct a consistent  review of the asset with key perfor­ has been carried out.  GRESB and SDG  complaints related to air,  (low to high)
A comprehensive approach   land, water pollution  ● Social inclusion (%)
assessment of each assets’ sustaina­ mance indicators  is taken to consider all   frameworks, key indicators  (yes/no)
bility performance across the invest­ ● Set up a consistent reviewing pro­ the activities in the context  have been created.  
of developed European 
ment  period.  Our  methodological  cess throughout the investment life­ These indicators are to  
countries. Based on 
framework was designed to align with: time with continuously updated targets  research work and GRESB  be used to extract data   GOVERNANCE 
ECONOMIC  
● Our existing reporting commitments  ● Facilitate  an  open  dialogue  with   reports, the materiality  in the field to monitor, 
level of all SDG targets has   ● Board independence
to GRESB for ESG performance ena­ the port folio companies taking into  been scored on a scale  report and analyze   ● Gross asset value (€) ● Gender parity  
bling us to identify ESG­related risks  account positive results and possible  of “0” being not or less  assets’ sustainability  ● Revenue (€) at board (%)
and implement solutions. improvements  relevant to “3” indicating  performance in  ● Maintenance   ● Integration of ESG 
core or direct impact.  & Operation cost (€/km) performance targets
● The  globally  and  widely  acknowl­ ● Communicate to investors about posi­ Following this preliminary  a consistent and  ● Network length (km)
edged UN SDG framework highlight­ tive economic, social and environ mental  assessment, the results  efficient way.
are further reviewed with 
ing the impact­related contributions  impacts of the assets and explain nega­ additional input from    
of our assets in light of the SDGs.   tive impacts and mitigation plans. __ • the investment committee  
and other stakeholders,  
We conducted a materiality analysis 
taking in consideration  
Core
for each infrastructure sector to take  context­specific factors 
into account the relevant ESG issues.  such as locations, 
Vincent Cassagne,  types of products or 
We first applied our methodology to  Investment Director - Partner services provided, the 
economic size of the 
operating company, etc.  Direct
In the end, only Core, 
Direct and Indirect SDGs 
and  their Core, Direct 
2
and Indirect targets 
have been kept for each  Not relevant 4 1 3
asset type. 
HOW DO  
Indirect
Context­ 
specific
WE MEASURE  
RISKS & OPPORTUNITIES 
RATING
Considering each phase of the investment  
AND REPORT  
cycle, Risks & Opportunities ratings are conducted, 
using the asset­type­specific indicators.  
During the pre­investment phase, the investment 
team can gage the potential risk and contribution  8,978  0  4 
of the investment opportunity against short­listed  VEHICLES/DAY OVER   FATALITIES (CUSTOMER  ADJACENT 
IMPACT AT   indicators. They will subsequently decide whether  THE YEAR & EMPLOYEES) ECOLOGICAL 
to invest and what sustainability requirements  HABITATS IDENTIFIED
need to be addressed in the contractual document  +4.7%   28  
to mitigate the relevant risks. During the asset  COMPARED TO LAST  INJURIES  2  
management phase, the ratings system facilitates  YEAR (CUSTOMERS) AND  PROTECTED SPECIES  
VAUBAN IP? communication between the investment team  2 (CONTRACTORS) (1 BEETLE AND 1 
and the portfolio companies and enables them  NO  AMPHIBIAN) STUDIED
to conduct their annual review using the same  NOISE OR LIGHT  >MSOPTEOCRIFBICIK AE CRTAICOENSS T DOU PRRINOGM OTE 
language to discuss impact, progress, KPIs, and  POLLUTION  THE BIKERS SECURITY
actions needed. PROBLEMS REPORTED >EIMNPCLEONYTEIVESE  ABAGSREEDE MOENN PTE FROFOR RMANCE
16 VAUBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PARTNERS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 17
OUR COMMITMENT OUR COMMITMENT
FROM   SAFE AND RELIABLE  1 3
FOCUS ON 
THD 59 62, ONE   TRANSPORTATION 
Identity Card  Performance in 2019
OF THE 7 SPVS  
ASSETS PROVIDING  
UNDER AXIONE
Purpose: Metro of Malaga is   ● Total number of one-way trips
METHODOLOGY  THE NECESSARY 
a light metro network in the city    in the year: 6,877,296
CONNECTIONS FOR   of Malaga. It currently comprises   ● More than 30% of passengers are 
two lines (line 1 and line 2)   students using the metro in their daily 
FUTURE GENERATIONS   for a total length of 11.3 km   commute to school
In Northern France, 
the signature of the  and 17 stations. Both lines run  ● 99% of the energy consumed
TO RESULTS TO THRIVE underground in the city center.    is sourced from renewable sources
Employment­Training­
Insertion Charter  The metro has been operating   ● Development of new routes 
since July 2014. brought opportunities to further 
in June 2019 was an 
Country: Spain improve service
essential milestone for 
the sustainable  Date of investment: 2016 ● Voluntary actions have been taken
Total disbursed Capex:  to maximize positive environmental 
deployment of optical  TRANSPORT – URBAN PUBLIC 
€711 million   and social impact: renewable 
fiber in Nord­Pas­de­
INFRASTRUCTURE Stake in the company: 43% energy sourcing, energy efficiency 
Calais. Through this "Job 
CONNECTING  Status: Ongoing projects, installation of electric 
for All” program, 
vehicle­charging stations and school 
Axione’s THD 59 62 
COMMUNITIES  
visits/open tours at the facilities
project company  
THROUGH   and its partners 
have already enabled 
DIGITAL NETWORKS   the integration of  2
193 long­term 
WITH AXIONE
unemployed, welfare  Asset strengths
recipients, young 
people and disabled  ● A sustainable urban transportation 
workers since  the  system, with substantial environmental 
inception of the project.  (low­carbon, tackling local air 
pollution) and social (safe and reliable 
DIGITAL INFRASTRUCTURE – 
travel equal access to key community 
OPTICAL FIBER facilities and services) benefits 
● Directly (job creation) and indirectly 
(business activities) contributes to 
local economic development thanks 
to its gradual capacity expansion
1 2 3
Identity Card  Asset strengths Performance in 2019
Purpose: Axione designs and   ● Plays a vital role in enhancing  ● Full-time permanent 
deploys digital infrastructures,   connectivity (especially within  employees (Axione SAS): 2,118
and notably fiber optic networks:  semi­urban and rural areas)  Revenue in € (Axione SAS): 
Axione operates, maintains   and enabling equal and reliable  546,000,000 “Since the beginning  (GHG) emissions:   We are very proud  
and markets Fiber­to­the­Home  access to information ● Policies and monitoring  SUSTAINABILITY  of commercial  more than 4,000 tons  of Vauban IP’s renewed 
(FTTH), and has contracted more than  ● Boosts local job creation with  systems have been adopted  FROM THE ASSETCO  exploitation, on July 30,  of CO2 emissions are  confidence in Metro 
6 million FTTH  sockets in mainland  local SMEs flourishing thanks to address key ESG risks  STANDPOINT: 2014, the Málaga metro  avoided every year. of Malaga and we 
France  (equivalent to 13 million    to high­speed internet such as gender discrimination  has been interacting  Another recent highlight  look forward to 
inhabitants) notably through its 19 RIP  ● The undertaken digital network  (25% female employees),  with society and the  is the achievement  working hand in hand 
(réseau d’intérêt public), with  expansion projects have negligible  material sourcing and resource  A word from D. Francisco   environment in general,  in 2018 of AENOR  to further improve 
2.7 million already installed to date. environmental footprint during the  efficiency (strengthening  J. Gambero Castro,  beyond urban  certification for our  our environmental 
Country: France operation stage and bring direct and  GHG monitoring, maintaining  President of Metro  mobility. In terms of  Universal Accessibility  and social footprints 
Date of investment:   indirect socio­economic benefits low waste intensity) of Malaga environmental impacts,  Management System,  thanks to this strong 
2019 (partnership since 2009) ● Contributed to the facilitation  one of the most   acknowledging  impact reporting 
Total disbursed Capex:   of virtual medical services  positive outcomes   our commitment to  framework.”
€3 billion and telemedicine projects –  that our activity  society to ensure that 
Stake in the Operating Company  shared platform to exchange  generates is savings   everyone has equal 
(Axione SAS): 49% medical X­ray files in Loire  in greenhouse gas  access to our facilities.
Status: Ongoing and Rhone­Alpes area)
Core Direct Indirect Core Direct Indirect
18 VAUBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PARTNERS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 19
OUR COMMITMENT OUR COMMITMENT
NORDIC DISTRICT  1 3 GIVING ACCESS  2
CARE FACILITIES: 
HEATING  TO GOOD CARE  
Identity Card Performance in 2019 Asset strengths
EXPERTS LEADING  FOR PEOPLE   where sustainable 
THE WAY TOWARD  Pthuer pleoasdein: gO sinlodfejopredn Vdaernmt eN iosr  wegian  ●co Tnontaelc ttheedr mtoa tlh peo nweetwr coarpk:a 1c4i2tyM W  IN THE BALEARICS imnferaeststr uuncctuorme p romising  ●is  Tthhee  pcroorvei smioisns oiof nh eoaf ltthhec aarses e t,  
SUSTAINABLE  district heating provider utilizing  ● Achieved high-efficiency at asset  efforts to bring   services, a direct contribution  
highly efficient and environmentally  level: 89% flawless services  to Sustainable Development Goal #3 
THERMAL POWER friendly heat pumps – a unique  ● Maintenance cost: €824,996 per  to communities. (Good health and well­being)
operation in Norway. The company  km of network ● Numerous opportunities lie in 
is also the largest district cooling  ● New measures have been  SOCIAL BUILDING –  optimizing facility operations  
provider in Norway. Oslofjord Varme  undertaken to enhance core  HOSPITAL through better waste management, 
owns over 119km (including JVs)  business (improving asset efficiency,   Perhaps in hospitals   increased renewable energy 
of networks heating and cooling  phasing out fossil fuels and  and medical   integration, and extended  
PUBLIC UTILITIES – DISTRICT  Greater Oslo’s homes and offices. incorporating renewable energies   centers more than  resource (energy, water) efficiency  
HEAT NETWORK Country: Norway i.e pellet boiler and new heat pump) anywhere else,   measures
Date of investment: 2018 ● The business has been growing  public­private 
Total disbursed Capex:  and the management team has plans  interactions play  
€192 million  to maximize social impact through  a prominent role 
Stake in the company: 42.5% new hires. Activity is also providing  in ensuring first­rate  3
Status: Ongoing heating and cooling to users at  quality of services  
competitive prices at a decreased  Performance in 2019 – focus 
to customers  
electricity tariff entrusting such critical  on Son Espases Hospital
● 61% of the energy delivered  infrastructures with  
2 is recovered/recycled energy, with  their well­being.   ● 1,032 hospital beds instead of 
39% remaining from electricity  
We take pride and  1,020, 115 intensive care boxes 
and 97% from renewable resources
Asset strengths comfort in knowing   instead of 107 and 52 emergency 
that the Balearic   care boxes instead of 40. 
● Holds real potential in decarbonizing  Islands Hospitals   ● Energy consumption intensity: 
the energy mix with renewable  we invested in,   200Kw per square meter
heating and cooling systems pay particular attention  ● Number of reported employee 
● An essential service that perfectly  to satisfying the   injuries: 83
aligns with the local communities’  1 highest standards,   ● Contained risk of gender 
interests, supplying reliable and  even when it comes   discrimination with bespoke policies 
affordable energy to support social  Identity Card to seemingly trivial  and monitoring systems, as reflected 
and economic development practices such as  in the absence of reported complaints 
equipment sterilization  and litigation in this matter
Purpose: Insula is a holding  
and room aseptization. ● Harnessed the infrastructure’s 
company owning a portfolio  
potential (academic hospital   
of operating healthcare  
Son Espases University Hospital)  
assets in the Balearic Islands.  
and contributed to SDG 4 by  
Assets include the Son Espases 
covering educational and care needs 
hospital, in Palma, and Can  
of children aged from birth to  
Misses hospital, in Ibiza.  
twelve­years old, while providing 
Son Espases hospital is the largest 
occupational training to employees
hospital in the Balearic Islands, 
Even before the  the management team.  in operation since October 2010. 
A BENCHMARK  introduction of  In line with the UN’s  Can Misses hospital is located 
INVESTMENT  Vauban IP’s impact  Sustainable Development  in Ibiza, and entered in to 
management policy  Goals, the reporting  operation in October 2013.  
IN TERMS  at the fund level,  process focuses on both  Both hospitals are financed  
OF TRANSPARENCY  we had participated  qualitative and quantitative  with long­term debt, and are 
AND IMPACT  in the implementation of  elements relating to  managed under a long­term 
MONITORING  an impact assessment  Oslofjord Varme’s fossil  concession contract with  
framework for Oslofjord  fuel use and renewable  the Region of the Balearic Islands. 
Varme that measures  energy use, biodiversity  Country: Spain
the environmental,  protection action  Date of investment: 2017
social, and governance  plans, workers’ health  Total disbursed Capex: 
indicators of the asset,  conditions and safety  €437 million 
in collaboration with  management systems. Stake in the company: 80%
Status: Ongoing
Core Direct Indirect Core Direct Indirect
20 VAUBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PARTNERS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 21
OUR COMMITMENT OUR COMMITMENT
HOW DO WE  TEAM TRAINING _____ “The training sessions allowed us to truly 
figure out the rationale of the work we need to 
do for the assessment. We were able to challenge 
and refine the methodology based on our 
Top-down approach and  to participate in  
INTEGRATE ESG INTO  Integration of the entire   the evaluation procedure knowledge of the sectors to make it more 
team in the construction   ● Risk, Compliance   relevant to our portfolio. It is an important step 
and implementation   and Legal team: to provide  to let us not only stick to the script but to really 
of the sustainability strategy,  full support on evaluation  
align the underlying principles with the specific 
OUR INVESTMENT  leading to full capacity   of the strategy and 
features of each asset.”
from all employees   integration of the ESG criteria 
 
(from portfolio managers  in the legal documents and 
Marine Meiller, Investment Manager
to support functions)   formalized policies
to manage ESG and  
PROCESS?
impact­related topics in  
their daily operations. Resources:  An ESG  _____ “Tools tailor-made for the team have 
committee works   been adapted to cover the entire investment 
with external advisors  
cycle from identification of opportunities, 
Teamwork   to create the materials 
up to due diligence and asset management 
All team members play   and initiatives to support  
phase. The extensive and detailed exercise is 
a dedicated role in the  the team
At each investment phase,   AT PRE-INVESTMENT STAGE execution of the strategy ● Formalized policies streamlined to display all the necessary inputs 
a formal procedure is in place   ● We automatically filter out investments that are undermining   ● ESG committee:  ­ Ethics code and outputs on one main dashboard. It ensures 
for the team to systematically  the effort to a sustainable transition:  to conceptualize and  ­ Sustainability charter   the process is as efficient and consistent 
design the overarching  ­ Responsible investment 
consider ESG factors.   ­ Sectoral exclusion: exploration and production of fossil fuels – coal,   as possible.”
framework that is tailored  policy
Specific steps and indicators   oil, shale gas, gas – and weapons, etc. 
for Vauban IP and  ● Formalized guide to 
Christelle Destors, Investment Director - Partner
are used to evaluate the assets  
to coordinate different  support the implementation  
– with an increasing level   ● We carry out a sustainability analysis for each potential  personnel throughout  of the entire sustainability 
of details at the Screening   investment utilizing sector-specific ESG criteria:  the process evaluation process
to Due Diligence and Asset  ­ Filtering criteria: investments identified with high ESG risks with little  ● Investment team:   ● Regular interactive 
to contribute with their  workshops in small groups  
Management phases – and support  hope for improvement, or because of too few ESG opportunities.  
sectoral expertise to give  of sector specialists  
their improvement from an   In 2019, all 20 of the investment opportunities were screened  
input on the methodology  or with the entire team
ESG perspective. and a total of 9 assets were selected as a result.
­ Mitigating dedicated clauses integrated into the legal document with 
respect to identified ESG issues to describe our sustainability 
requirements with portfolio companies (SPVs). 
AT ASSET MANAGEMENT STAGE
Once an asset is invested in, a yearly data collection on ESG and 
sustainability indicators will be conducted, and the risk/opportunities 
analyses, and action plan will be reviewed. This will be the basis 
for evaluating our overall impact per asset, per fund and for 
each investment. It will also drive our actions for next year and 
ensure we keep moving and improving on sustainability aspects 
through our direct actions and engagement with our portfolio 
companies (SPVs).
22 VAUBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PARTNERS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 23
OUR
At Vauban Infrastructure 
Partners, we integrate in our daily  LOCATED in a high  ONLINE MEETINGS
work practices to avoid, reduce  eco­standard, refurbished  where possible rather 
or offset our carbon emissions.  building than long­distance travel;  
public transportation  
rather than private 
SUSTAINABILITY
when possible
PAPERLESS PRACTICE
STRATEGY BEGINS
A JOURNEY OF A  PRO BONO
THOUSAND MILES BEGINS  We are actively looking 
AT OUR OWN WITH A SINGLE STEP 
at opportunities to participate 
in selected pro bono actions. 
Our sustainability strategy 
Our goal is to achieve at least 
begins at our own workplace. 
one pro bono action involving 
We implement apt measures  
the whole team every year. 
and policies to ensure ESG 
WORKPLACE… Once the action is identified, 
considerations are embedded 
Vauban IP commits to take 
in our internal practices.  
it to its final point mobilizing 
This shows our determination 
any staff member needed. 
and ambition as we apply 
For 2020, we are starting 
the highest standards 
a structured action of technical 
to ourselves before applying 
and human support to women 
them to our investments.
launching small businesses.
CARBON 
COMPENSATION
At Vauban Infrastructure 
Vauban IP is committed, 
Partners, our people are 
with the support of  
our most valued asset. We strive 
a specialized and B  
for excellence and respect 
Corp-certified partner, 
differences and our needs as 
to the carbon compensation 
human beings.
of its CO  emissions   INTERNAL
2
through a dual action: 
• planting 3,500 trees  
50% of our employees  SIGNATORY of France  in France within the framework 
owns part of the company’s  Invest Charter for gender  of a project guaranteeing  
SUSTAINABILITY
shareholding parity the resistance, adaptation  
and resilience of the  
surrounding ecosystem
• while engaging in the 
100% of our staff is trained  EQUAL PAY
acquisition of internationally 
every year by allocation of 
labelled carbon credits,  ACHIEVEMENTS.
a substantial budget 
corresponding to 500 tonnes 
CO  equivalent
2
24 VAUBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PARTNERS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 25
OUR VISION OF TOMORROW
_________  In  2019,  we  have  strived  to  ensure  that  USEFUL LINKS
Vauban  Infrastructure  Partners  starts  its  activities  in 
accordance with the team’s DNA, dedicated to setting 
up our own house with the highest standards possible. 
We are continuously looking for opportunities to step 
up our efforts for 2020 and onwards in promoting sustain­
able development, and to remain both up to date with 
the sustain ability standards and anticipating the next 
best­in­class approaches. For instance, we participate in  Vauban Infrastructure Partners
www.vauban­ip.com
working  groups  within  the  aforementioned  initiatives, 
conduct a watch on approaches, methods, tools and 
Global Real Estate Sustainability 
results obtained. We are also working on a further aggre­ Benchmark (GRESB)
www.gresb.com
gation of selected indicators at a portfolio level and the 
align ment of our investments with the EU Taxonomy and 
France Invest
developing our efforts to support the TCFD.
WHAT’S NEXT   www.franceinvest.eu
Looking  ahead,  through  and  beyond  the  Covid­19  
FOR VAUBAN  crisis, we are confident that our core values (long­term  United Nations Principles 
view, stakeholder­centric approach, fair business rela­ for Responsible Investments
www.unpri.org
 SOCIAL &  tion ships)  will  be  even  more  important  and  relevant 
to  infra structure  investment.  Throughout  the  crisis  in 
United Nations Sustainable 
ENVIRONMENTAL 
Europe, we have organized ourselves to support our  Development Goals (SDGs)
www.sustainabledevelopment.un.
teams  and  be  fully  available  to  business  continuity. 
org
COMMITMENT 
We  have  worked  intensively  to  support  our  portfolio 
companies  and  promoted  social  actions  to  support 
Task Force on Climate-related 
impacted  local  communities  (notably  employees  in  Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
www.fsb­tcfd.org
difficulty, etc.). We have started to draw a few key lessons 
from  the  epidemic.  One  of  the  most  striking  is  the 
importance of resilience of infrastructure: resilience to 
climate change impacts, to systemic and sudden crises, 
to digitalization, to changing social behaviors, etc. During 
the coming months, we will take the time to have a 
strategic  review  and  think,  with  the  help  of  senior 
academics  and  seasoned  infrastructure  professionals,  
to study the impact of Covid­19 on infrastructure and 
develop  the  case  for  necessary  increased  resilience, 
notably through digitalization. Finally, being part of an  
eco system providing essential services to local commu­
nities,  we  will  be  even  more  committed  to  support 
the  long­term  trends  we  had  identified  pre­Covid 
and that will be now at the forefront of public attention: 
reducing  the  digital  divide,  supporting  energy  transi­
tion, deve loping sustainable transportation systems and 
social infrastructure.
Our stakeholders can count on us to strive to reach the 
highest level of requirements and excellence to achieve 
these objectives. __ •
Mounir Corm, Deputy Chief Executive Officer and Founding 
This document and its content are based on information reported by third parties and have not been audited by independent experts. While the information 
Partner  contained in this document is believed to be accurate, no representations or warranties are made as to the accuracy of such information, and no responsibility 
or liability can be accepted for damage caused by use of or reliance on the information contained within this document.
26 VAUBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PARTNERS
