
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ESG 2021 
Report 
Art. 173 French Law on Energy 
Transition for Green Growth 
 
SFDR(EU) – 2019/2088 
 
Investing for the future 
 
 
 
3   
 
 A+ 
RATING 
 
Groupama AM is rated by the PRI on its ion ESG incorporation policy 
 
 
 
ESG 
OUR RANGE 
FOR  
 
Groupama AM proposes 4 fund families for ESG investment: 
SRI, Thematic, Impact and Employee Saving, comprising: 
► 4 funds awarded the French SRI label 
► 10 employee investment funds (FCPEs) awarded the French SRI label 
► 1 thematic fund awarded the French SRI label 
► 1 impact fund awarded the Greenfin Label 
 
80
BILLION EUROS 
  
 
of assets under management taking ESG issues into account 
as on 31/12/2020 
 
  PIONEER OF SUSTAINABLE FINANCE   
Our first SRI fund was launched in 2001 
 
 
  OUR RESEARCH   
13 analysts with dual expertise in financial analysis and ESG issues 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INVESTING FOR 
THE FUTURE 
 
 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
1  Groupama Asset Management, 
a committed driver of sustainable finance 
 
2  Sustainable finance, engine of the future 
 
3  An ESG approach 
between research and innovation 
 
4  A proprietary expert ESG methodology 
 
5  Identifying and managing our environmental risks 
 
6  A range of solutions 
for sustainable investment 
 
7  Voting and shareholder engagement policy 
 
8  Informing our customers 
 
9  Engaged alongside its employees for the 
environment and for corporate social 
responsibility 
 
 
6   
 
Groupama Asset Management, 
a committed driver of sustainable finance 
 
 
Active and fundamental management guided by a 
responsible vision of finance 
Since its creation in 1993 Groupama Asset Management (Groupama AM), a 
subsidiary of Groupama, has established its place as one of the top French 
players in asset management. Groupama AM, which has historically operated on 
behalf of numerous entities of the Groupama Group, has now put its expertise 
and know-how at the service of institutional investors, companies and private 
customers. 
With its long history of commitment to the principle of responsible investment, 
Groupama AM affirms its conviction that the performance of an issuer is 
systematically improved by integrating environmental, social and governance 
(ESG)G factors into the heart of its management strategy. 
 
€ 109 bill.  assets under 
management as on 
31/12/2020 
 
 
               of which 
73% 
 
  incorporating 
  ESG criteria 
€ 80 bill.     
  European conviction 
assets under  equity 
management   
 
incorporating ESG  Global Asset 
issues  Allocation  Convertible 
bonds 
   
Insurance   
management   
  Treasury 
  management 
Active  
fixed income  
management  Active equity 
management 
 
 
 
G See Glossary at the end of the document 
 
 
7   
 
 
A CSRG policy that puts ESG at the heart of our profession 
as asset managers 
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) consists of incorporating social, economic and 
environmental issues into the activities of the company and into its relationships with its 
stakeholders. By conviction and engagement, Groupama AM adheres to a 
Corporate Social Responsibility policy that aims to transpose to the company the 
concept of Sustainable Development, as defined in the 1987 Brundtland Report: 
 
 
“ 
 
 
  development that meets the needs of the present without compromising 
  the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. 
 
 
” 
 
 
The CSR strategy implemented by Groupama AM is part of the overall strategy  
 
of the Groupama Group and is being deployed over a 3-year period from 2019 to 
2021. The unique advantage of this strategy is that it was constructed with the 
participation of all our employees, by means of an internal survey conducted 
simultaneously in all the entities of the Groupama Group. 
 
Groupama AM fully adheres to this vision and undertakes to improve its impact by 
acting on four key pillars. 
 
Environmental   Social 
with regard to our  with regard to our 
environment  employees  
Societal  Economic 
with regard to civil  taking into account current 
society  economic challenges 
 
On the question of the economic pillar of its CSR policy, Groupama AM affirms its 
determination to implement a responsible, active and fundamental management 
style, in particular through the integration of financial and ESG analysis. At 
Groupama AM, this sustained and accoladed management style is applied across 
the board by all our expert teams. 
 
 
8   
 
 
Remaining close to our customers 
With its close-knit, human-scale organization, Groupama AM provides each of its 
clients with a structure that is both responsive and easily accessible, so that it 
can assist customers in the day-to-day management of their capital. 
 
 
 
“ 
 
  Mirela Agache-Durand, 
  CEO 
 
 
This proximity enables Groupama AM to identify the appropriate positioning  
 
to be adopted for each client in order to establish sustainable and 
 
responsible growth and to generate value creation while preserving high 
 
profitability targets. 
 
 
 
” 
   
   
   
  Investing for the future, our reason for being 
 
At Groupama AM, we believe that finance can help to change the world and build the world 
of tomorrow. 
That is why our committed, convinced, passionate and expert employees deploy 
their excellence in the field every day to identify, select and invest in the 
companies that build their performance on a sustainable basis. 
Giving our clients the opportunity to make this choice for the future while also 
guaranteeing them responsible and high-performance investment constitute our 
reason for being. 
 
A reason for being that we express in our signature: INVESTING FOR THE FUTURE 
 
 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
1  Groupama Asset Management, 
a committed driver of sustainable finance 
 
2  Sustainable finance, engine of the future 
 
3  An ESG approach 
between research and innovation 
 
4  A proprietary expert ESG methodology 
 
5  Identifying and managing our environmental risks 
 
6  A range of solutions 
for sustainable investment 
 
7  Voting and shareholder engagement policy 
 
8  Informing our customers 
 
9  Engaged alongside its employees for the 
environment and for corporate social 
responsibility 
 
 
10  
 
Sustainable finance, engine of the future 
 
 
 
 
A changing world 
Groupama AM offers its customers a resolutely active conviction-based 
management style, with a medium/long-term investment outlook, depending on 
the specific characteristics of the asset classes in question. This conviction-based 
approach to investment management requires a good understanding of the 
transformations taking place in our economy, together with prompt 
identification of risks and early detection of new opportunities for generating 
added value. 
 
For this purpose, the inclusion of Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) 
criteria is essential to keeping track of the three major transitions – digital, 
environmental and demographic – that are bringing deep changes to our 
economies and therefore to modern business models. 
 
Transitions 
 
 
 
 
Environmental  
Switching from an economy based on 
fossil fuels to an economy based on 
low-carbon energy sources and the 
management of the environmental 
impacts of business activities. 
 
Digital  Demographic 
Impact of new technologies on the  Consequences of the social trends - 
ability to handle large volumes of data  ageing population, urbanization and 
concerning the internal processes of  increasing inequalities - that are 
companies and their relationships with  confronting companies with new 
their customers, suppliers and civil  challenges for the management of their 
society.  human capital and  
customers. 
   
 
 
 
11    
 
 
 
 
   
Groupama AM: pioneer of sustainable finance   
 
   
       
2015   
    Groupama AM     
    chairs the  2018  2021      
2001    Sustainable  Creation  Launch  
Launch    Finance  of an ESG  of the ESG Project and 
of our SRI  2009  Commission of   Strategy  continued drive   
equity fund  Launch of our  the AFG  Department  for official ESG     
“ISR Action”   “ISR Crédit” fund  certification 
 
 
 
2003  2006  2010  2016  2020      
Creation of an   Groupama AM: one  ESG methodology for  Merging of the  4 funds 
ESG analysis unit,  of the founding  analyzing state  financial and ESG  awarded the 
integrated with  signatories of the  economies and  analysis teams  French SRI      
financial analysis  PRI, with several  launch of our fund  label, 1 fund 
SRI initiatives on  awarded the GreenFin     
the Market  label 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The first integrated research team on the Paris financial   
market 
   
Almost 
18  100     
Months of  hours of training     
training  in  ESG   
   
 
 
 
       
  2016     
  Uniting of the financial and   
  ESG analysis teams  Today      
  A tram comprising 11 analysts 
  and 3 economists        
incorporating both financial 
 
and ESG considerations in 
2003 
their work 
Creation and development of a 
proprietary ESG analysis 
methodology incorporating 
financial analysis and culminating 
in a single recommendation: 
 
 
 
12  
 
 
 
Alessandro Roggero 
Financial and ESG Analyst, Automotive Sector: 
Since 2016, Alessandro has been contributing to the incorporation of ESG in 
financial analysis. Here, he looks back on this transition phase, which has been 
strategic for Groupama AM. 
 
What was the origin of this project? 
 
Up to 2016, Groupama Asset Management had teams of analysts that were 
specialized by sector (automotive, telecom, banking, real estate etc.) but 
separated between conventional financial analysis and ESG. These teams 
worked together on analyzing securities, enabling us, at the end of this process, 
to deliver a single recommendation that took into account both ESG and 
financial considerations. 
 
In 2015, following COP21, the mobilization around sustainable finance 
accelerated on financial markets, and Groupama AM took the decision to unite 
its financial and ESG analysts into a single team. To do so, each financial 
analyst had to be trained in ESG methodologies. 
 
However, training courses in these subjects were rare and not entirely suited to 
our needs. So, senior management and the Research department decided to 
facilitate the transfer of the skills of our ESG teams to our financial analysts by 
organizing internal training courses. 
 
How was the project put into practice? 
 
From 2016 onwards, the team of ESG analysts provided us with continuous 
training for almost 2 years. This was because this significant expertise required 
the establishment of methodical internal training over a long period, in order to 
maintain the same level of rigour in both financial and ESG analysis. We called 
these sessions “Teach’In”. 
 
What were the key points of this training? 
 
My career path had already given me an awareness of these issues, but the 
“Teach’In” sessions were extremely advanced and in-depth. 
13 
 
 
 
`I already included corporate 
governance in my analyses. By 
contrast, with regard to all the 
environmental, human resources or 
societal aspects (such as health and 
safety indicators etc.), these 
“Teach’In” sessions provided me with 
an effective and highly operational 
analysis method. 
 
Reconciling and integrating the two 
types of analysis provides a 
“holistic” approach to the company, 
giving us the ability to characterize it 
in the light of a full range of more 
exhaustive criteria. 
 
This enabled us to fine-tune our 
discernment capabilities: for example, 
rigorous analysis of environmental risks 
and opportunities gave me the ability 
to apprehend and anticipate the major 
impact that European regulations on 
pollutant emissions would have on the 
entire automotive supply chain. 
 
 
14  
 
 
An ambitious ESG strategy 
As a sign of the importance that Groupama AM accords to the challenges of ESG, an 
ESG Strategy Department was established in May 2018 and was placed under the 
Director of Research, who is also a member of the Executive Committee. 
 
The deployment of this ESG policy is monitored in a dedicated committee, the 
ESG Strategy Committee, which is chaired by the CEO and meets quarterly. 
Numerous teams at Groupama AM - Management, Research, Development, 
Support Activities, Communication, CSR and Reporting - participate in the various 
projects defined to attain the objectives of ESG Strategy. Their actions are 
coordinated on a daily basis by the team dedicated to ESG incorporation and 
verified monthly by a dedicated Steering Committee. Monthly progress reports on 
the deployment of this ESG strategy are also submitted to the Executive 
Committee. 
 
On establishing this strategy, three objectives 
were defined: 
 
 
 
 
 
Accelerate  Respond                         
The incorporation of ESG issues into  to the increasing demands of 
investment analysis and decision- investor-customers 
making processes 
 
 
Innovate 
To develop and advance our product range 
 
 
 
 
 
15  
 
 
 
 
Aurélie de Barochez, 
Head of ESG Integration at Groupama AM 
 
Recognized internal expertise based on 20 years or research 
in ESG analysis 
 
How has the approach of Groupama AM in the field of sustainable finance 
evolved over the last few years? 
 
With the constantly growing demands of investors, the strict requirements of 
regulators, as witnessed in the entry into forces of the SFDRG (Sustainable 
Finance Disclosure Regulation), and of the EU Taxonomy Regulation, the 
ambitions of the asset management industry in the field of sustainable finance 
are visibly evolving. These unprecedented conditions confirm the three major 
guiding principles that we have adopted since 2018 to drive practical change in 
our approach to sustainable finance: accelerate the systematic incorporation of 
ESG criteria in investment analyses and decisions, respond to the increasing 
demands of customers-investors and, finally, innovate to stimulate progress and 
renewal in our product range. 
 
How is ESG incorporated in practice? 
 
Over the course of 20 years, we have created a methodology for cross-
disciplinary integration of ESG, covering all of our management teams, so that 
portfolio managers have the benefit of the financial and ESG recommendations 
formulated by our research teams. These recommendations are ultimately 
integrated by the management teams in their investment decisions. 
 
The systematic formalization of this approach was one of the targets we set 
ourselves in 2018. We have made the process of integrating ESG analysis into 
financial analysis clearer and more readily understandable. Also, to make ESG 
analysis easy to use by our fund managers, we have established new proprietary 
information systems that give them access to the ESG ratings of more than 5000 
issuers in our investment universe. 
 
 
16  
 
In addition, we have deployed core ESG training for all our managers. In 2019, 
each manager had an average of 10 hours of training to achieve various 
objectives, such as clear understanding of the key concepts (identification of 
ESG data sources and the capability to identify key ESG issues) and the ability to 
evaluate their implications for financial elements. 
Since 2020, these training courses have focused on precise subjects. For 
example, for the last 6 months, managers have undertaken several training 
sessions on the regulatory aspects of ESG, especially the consequences of the 
AMF doctrine, the SFDRG  
and taxonomy 
 
This internal training programme has also been deployed to all our teams. Our 
goal as an asset management company committed to ESG issues depends on the 
implication of all our teams. These training courses have laid the foundations of 
a shared ESG culture. 
 
What is your perspective on the demand from customers-investors for 
responsible investment? 
 
In less than a decade, responsible investment has become largely generalized in 
the asset management industry. However, after an initial phase of proliferation 
of supply, we are now witnessing a cycle of formalization, certification labels 
and enforcement of compliance, especially with the entry into force of the 
SFDRG: asset managers can no longer content themselves with declaring their 
commitment to ESG but now have to demonstrate this commitment structurally 
and operationally, all the way from fund prospectus to risk management. 
 
We are observing increasing investor demand for made-to-measure services 
that meet specific requirements. This can concern certain aspects of the voting 
or shareholder engagement policy or the transparency of ESG information. We 
have industrialized several ESG report formats with one overriding condition: 
the data must provide an instructive spotlight for the customer. That is why we 
prioritize the quality of information over its exhaustiveness. 
ESG data must provide an instructive spotlight for the customer, 
which is why we prioritize the quality  
of information over its exhaustiveness 
17 
 
A window on 
2021 
 
We launched a new phase in the deployment of our ESG Strategy 
at the end of 2020, structuring our approach around 
6 projects. We are maintaining the same decentralized approach 
established in 2018, based on the implication of numerous teams 
to ensure that ESG does not remain a niche subject for specialists 
but is applied across the board throughout company.  
 
 
 
1  Accelerate label certifications 
for a proportion of our funds, so that we can offer our customers a 
certified SRI fund in each of our asset classes.  
 
 
 
 
2  Develop our methodology 
For ESG analysis, based on the raw indicators and adhering to the 
double materiality principle. 
 
 
3 
Develop a new tool 
to make ESG data even more  
accessible 
 
4 
Review our approach to ESG data 
to remain closer to the raw ESG data and to maintain 
our independence from agencies and expand our coverage significantly, in 
particular in asset classes such as Small and Mid-Caps and High Yield. 
 
5  Incorporate regulations 
manage the deployment of European regulations, in 
particular the SFDRG and the EU Taxonomy Regulations... 
 
6 
Strengthen shareholder engagement 
by systematizing our actions for the companies in which we 
invest and that do not publish sufficient environmental or social data, 
because we are convinced that ESG data is as important as financial 
data. 
 
 
18  
 
 
Multiple market engagements 
 
Founding signatory of the PRI 
The historic commitment of Groupama AM is evidenced by the fact that the company 
was one of the founding signatories of the PRI in 2006. 
As an asset management company, it provides an annual update on its 
commitment to the PRI G in a public report and since 2018, has obtained the top 
rating of A+ for its ESG integration strategy. 
 
Engagement at French and international level 
Groupama AM has long been committed to the integration of long-term ESG 
criteria into investment and has also long called for the establishment of a new, 
more durable and sustainable growth model. 
 
Since 2015, Groupama has chaired the “Sustainable Finance” Commission and has 
undertaken commitments on various issues, such as SRI labels, regulations and 
meeting the Sustainable Development Goals of the UN. Groupama AM is a member of 
the SRI Label Committee and the “Label Greenfin” Committee. 
 
 
As a member of the French Sustainable Investment Forum (FIR), Groupama AM 
actively contributes to the efforts towards European convergence on SRI. EUROSIF is 
the main body for promoting sustainable finance at European level. 
 
 
Groupama AM is a member of the French Responsible Investment Forum (Forum pour 
l’Investissement Responsable - FIR)) and in this capacity takes part in various 
working groups in collaboration with other industry associations and NGOs, such as 
AFG or ORSE with the aim of promoting socially responsible investment  (SRI ) to 
public and political authorities, economic players and stakeholders. 
Groupama AM takes part in the General Public Committee. 
 
 
This association is championed by “Paris Europlace” to promoted sustainable finance. 
Groupama AM takes part in various projects, in particular concerning the existing tools 
available to investors to measure climate risk and the creation of an ESG competency 
database. 
 
 
Groupama AM takes part in the Extra-Financial Committee. The company has 
actively contributed to the establishment of training courses in sustainable finance 
and regularly coordinates these courses. 
 
 
Since 2002, Groupama AM has been assisting in the work of the “Finance Club” of the CSR 
Observatory (ORSE) and contributes to the publication of several guides on the promotion 
of SRI. 
19 
 
 
 
 
Marie-Pierre Peillon 
Director of Research 
and ESG Integration at Groupama AM 
 
Data standardization will be the key to progress over the next few years... 
 
Since 2020, as part of the coming revision of the Non-Financial Reporting 
Directive, the European Commission has appointed EFRAG) European Financial 
Reporting Advisory Group) to set up a task force to study the possible 
standardization of non-financial reporting data. 
 
The aim of this working group has been to complete the preparatory work for 
establishing this future standardization. After 5 months of work: 
 
54 recommendations have been issued, grouped into major themes: 
 
The framework and the major principles that could be adopted by the 
standards authority in line with European ambitions, 
 
The standards architecture: 3 levels (general, sectoral and entity), 3 reporting 
domains (strategy, implementation and performance measurement), 3 
themes (Environment, Social, Governance). 
 
A time plan divided into 3 phases, from mid-2022 to mid-2024, the practical 
resources to be established and the contributions to joint international 
construction. 
 
I am proud to have contributed to the work of this task force, which 
comprised more than 35 European members, and to have chaired the 
group specifically dedicated to Financial Institutions. I salute the 
quality of the work done under the chairmanship of Patrick de 
Cambourg. With this work, which lays the foundations for future 
standardization of ESG data, Europe has set itself a timetable and given 
itself the means to define the key directions of the future work 
required to attain the ambitions of its action plan for Sustainable 
Finance. 
 
 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
1  Groupama Asset Management, 
a committed driver of sustainable finance 
 
2  Sustainable finance, engine of the future 
 
3  An ESG approach 
between research and innovation 
 
4  A proprietary expert ESG methodology 
 
5  Identifying and managing our environmental risks 
 
6  A range of solutions 
for sustainable investment 
 
7  Voting and shareholder engagement policy 
 
8  Informing our customers 
 
9  Engaged alongside its employees for the 
environment and for corporate social 
responsibility 
   
   
 
21    
   
 
An ESG approach   
 
between research and innovation   
 
   
 
 
 
The double materiality principle   
 
 
Our ESG methodology incorporates ESG risks and opportunities in accordance   
with the principle of double materiality established by the Sustainable Finance   
 
Disclosure Regulation (SFDRG
   
   
     
ESG 
Adverse sustainability     
impacts   
Sustainability risksG    
Impact of our investments on ESG factors:   
Impact of ESG events 
emissions of greenhouse gases   
(GHG), gender parity  on the value of our investments       
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Sustainability risksG
   
    
According to the SFDRG (Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation), 
sustainability risksG are defined as any “environmental, social, or governance event,      
    
or condition that, if it occurs, could cause a negative impact on the value of an 
 
investment.” At Groupama AM, these risks are declared in the list of Major ESG 
Risks, established in 2014, and in the Coal Policy, established in 2019.   
   
The List of Major ESG Risks and the list of companies not meeting  
    
our coal policy are validated by a special committee, the Sustainability RisksG 
Committee.  This Committee is chaired by the Risks Director and is composed of 
the  Research  and  ESG  Strategy  Director,  the  ALM  Director,  the  Active 
Management  Investment  Director  and  representatives  from  the  various 
specialized fund management teams and from Research and 
ESG Strategy. 
The aim of the Committee is to validate the companies placed on the two lists. 
 
 
22 
 
 
List of Major ESG Risks 
 
Groupama AM keeps track of a list of securities identified as comprising particularly 
high ESG risks, or the “list of Major ESG Risks”. 
The companies placed on this list of Major ESG Risks are the companies for which 
the ESG risks could imperil their economic and financial viability and/or could 
have a significant impact on the value of the company and of its brand and 
therefore cause a major loss in its stock market value or a significant 
downgrading by the rating agencies. 
With each new entry in the list of Major ESG Risks, the analyst determines the exit 
triggers, which are systematically reviewed every six months. 
 
This list classifies companies into two subsets: 
 
List of Major ESG 
Risks 
 
High level of  Governance 
controversies  shortcomings 
according to our data  rated by our analysts with 
providers and validated  50% of criteria judged to be 
by our own research  negative trending 
 
     
No recommendation to buy 
or to grant credit with a positive outlook 
can be given by our in-house analysts 
 
Coal Policy 
 
Since 2019, Groupama AM has applied a policy of exclusion of the coal sector, with 
the aim of reducing our exposure to climate risks, whether in terms of  
the physical risks or the transition risks. This is a strict exclusion policy, because it 
applies to all the portfolios directly managed by Groupama AM, including dedicated 
funds and third-party mandates, unless  
otherwise explicitly instructed by the customer. This policy applies to our 
investments in activities linked to thermal coal, i.e. the activities of coal 
extraction and the generation of energy from coal. 
   
   
23    
   
 
Two relative exclusion thresholds   
 
Share of turnover  Share of mix   
of electricity production 
 
   
Exclusion as from 20% since 2021   
 
 
 
Coal Policy compatible with a 2°C  scenarioG 
 
 
 
 
Groupama AM relies essentially on the Global Coal Exit List, provided by the German      
non-governmental organization (NGO)G Urgewald.   
   
The Coal Policy is accessible on the sustainable finance page of our website. 
 
 
 
 
Implementation of SFDRG in our management teams   
       
     
Implementation 
Managem Implementation of the List of  of the Coal     
ent teams  Major ESG Risks  Policy   
 
Open-end funds covered by  Exclusion    Exclusion     
 
articles 8 or 9 (except for     
money-market funds*)        
Insurance mandates covered  Non-reinvestment  Exclusion   
by article 8     
 
       
Money-market fundsH  Exclusion of investment in securities with  Exclusion   
  a maturity greater than 1 year and     
  monitoring of the investment ratios     
Funds having low tracking  The securities composing this list are  Exclusion   
error  sent to the managers     
       
Other processes  Investments in securities are subject to  Exclusion   
evidence that the decision complies with   
the objectives   
 
   
 
 
 
   
   
   
      
H For all our money-market funds, with or without ESG Label, exclusion under the list of Major ESG Risks 
does not apply to securities authorized by the Money-Market Committee with a maturity greater than one 
year This is because the universe of money-market securities is relatively small, and strict exclusion would 
have consequences contrary to the interests of investors. 
 
 
24  
 
This sustainability riskG monitoring policy 
is applied to the funds directly managed 
by Groupama AM. 
 
Particular attention is paid to these risks in 
our engagement policy. 
 
 
 
Adverse sustainability 
impacts 
The SFDRG defines these principal adverse 
impacts G as “adverse impacts [...] of 
investment decisions [...] that result in 
negative effects on sustainability factors.». 
Groupama AM takes these negative effects into 
consideration and has put in place reasonable 
diligence policies via the establishment of a 
proprietary methodological approach to ESG, as 
presented below. 
 
 
25  
 
 
 
 
1  Groupama Asset Management, 
a committed driver of sustainable finance 
 
2  Sustainable finance, engine of the future 
 
3  An ESG approach 
between research and innovation 
 
4  A proprietary expert ESG methodology 
 
5  Identifying and managing our environmental risks 
 
6  A range of solutions 
for sustainable investment 
 
7  Voting and shareholder engagement policy 
 
8  Informing our customers 
 
9  Engaged alongside its employees for the 
environment and for corporate social 
responsibility 
 
 
26  
 
A proprietary expert ESG methodology 
 
 
 
 
Three analysis pillars 
Our ESG methodology incorporates ESG risks and opportunities in accordance 
with the principle of double materiality established by the Sustainable Finance 
Disclosure Regulation (SFDRG)
 
 
The environmental criteria 
analyze the positioning and ability to adapt 
of companies in the context of the 
ecological and energy transition and the 
impacts of company activities on the 
protection of biodiversity. waste 
management, pollution, water management 
and water quality and the consumption of 
raw materials. 
 
 
The governance criteria 
The social and societal criteria 
focus on how the company is governed, 
bring together two groups of analysts - first, 
administered and controlled, and in 
analysts of the human capital of each 
particular on its relations with its 
company (skills management, training, 
shareholders, its board of directors and 
corporate culture, working climate etc.) in 
executive management, and also the 
the light of the three transitions, and, second, 
degree of incorporation of the challenges of 
analysis of the societal impact of the company 
sustainable development. 
(external relations with its customers, 
Analysis of corporate governance provides a 
suppliers and local communities) and its 
means of verifying due execution of the 
contribution to the Sustainable Development 
strategy by company management and 
Goals. 
making sure that the managers act in the 
interest of all the company’s shareholders 
and stakeholders. 
 
On the basis of this methodology, analysts can identify the most material ESG 
criteria for each sector, in accordance with the double materiality principle. 
- Identify the ESG factors that have an impact on company financial statements 
- Identify the adverse impacts that the activities of these companies have on 
certain ESG factors. 
 
The goal of this ESG analysis is to enable us to identify ESG opportunities. 
   
   
27    
   
 
   
The Sustainable Development Goals   
 
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)G provide a universal language that   
contributes to uniting corporate strategies and global development priorities.      
 
In this respect, the SDGsG are now systematically analyzed in the societal pillar of 
our ESG incorporation methodology: They demonstrate the way in which the 
company is integrated in a more sustainable world and in a logic of sustainable 
development. 
 
We encourage companies to take up this tool and to translate it into their own 
business model. Their choice must be indissociable from the “reason for being” 
that the company has defined for itself: as witnesses of the level of maturity and 
leadership of the company with regard to societal challenges, we now expect 
these goals to be accompanied by measurable impact indicators. 
 
 
 
A window on 
2021 
ESG Incorporation 
In 2020, we started work on the selection of the main indicators, indispensable to 
the analysis. We have continued this work during the first part of 2021, first by 
adding to these indicators the 14 principal adverse impactsG, rendered mandatory 
by the delegated acts of the SFDRG and, second, by working on a new rating 
system based on the raw ESG data. The second half of the year will be dedicated 
to putting this prototype into standard practice. 
 
 
28  
 
 
Our data sources for ESG analysis 
 
ISS ETHIX 
Monitors companies involved in the production, marketing and 
sale of anti-personnel mines and cluster bombs. 
 
Analysis of resolutions at General Meetings {GMs)) and aid in the application 
of the voting policy 
 
 
 
 
 
VIGEO EIRIS 
Social and  ISS / ECGS / PROXINVEST 
environmental analysis  Analysis  of  resolutions  at 
of the companies  General Meetings {GMs)) and 
  aid in the application of the 
Analysis of the  voting policy 
governance of the 
companies Analysis 
and monitoring of 
controversies 
 
 
 
ICARE & CONSULT 
Green shareG 
 
Indicator of alignment with a 2°C scenarioG 
NECG: “Net Environmental Contribution” 
G
Carbon Intensity  
 
 
Systematic integration of ESG factors in our fundamental 
analysis 
The aim of our approach to the integration of ESG is to measure the impact of ESG 
criteria on the financial criteria and therefore on our final recommendations. In our 
studies of securities, we focus on analyzing the ESG criteria identified as critical 
in our sectoral analyses. 
 
 
29  
 
Definition of material ESG criteria 
 
Our approach with regard to the material ESG criteria combines both  
top-down and bottom-up analysis. 
We start with a macroeconomic analysis, i.e. with the three transitions that we have 
identified as being of structural significance, and then translate them into a  
microeconomic approach at the level of the sector and of the individual security.        
This enables us to evaluate whether the company is integrating the evolving changes of its   
ecosystem and to measure the company’s ability to adapt rapidly to new data in its established   
strategy.   
   
Impact on financial elements   
   
Analysis of these ESG criteria provides an ESG assessment with 3 broad ratings      
(positive, moderate and negative), together with a future outlook. 
 
The analyst then defines which financial factors are impacted by these 
criteria, thereby providing an understanding of how the analysis of these ESG 
factors will be integrated in the overall recommendation concerning the investment 
security concerned. 
 
 
 
Qualitative analysis  Example: 
  Human capital:  Societal 
Opportunity  Opportunity 
Challenges of the 3 
transitions 
Financial 
Identification of ESG criteria:   stability      Activity 
using a double materiality   
approach  Financing  
Event           Risk  
Single recommendation 
Credit recomm:  positive  
 
 
30   
 
ESG approach incorporated into the analysis of sovereign debt issuers 
 
Since October 2018, country risk analysis by Groupama AM takes ESG risks into 
consideration in ratings based on four key factors. 
 
 
This methodology aims to capture the potential impacts of environmental, 
societal and political factors in the business climate of a country. The ESG score 
is determined as the sum of ratings of three components - Governance, Social 
and Environment. 
 
The “Governance” rating measures the quality of the power structures of a 
country. It is composed of six sub-factors for which the data are published by the 
World Bank - freedom of expression, quality of the regulatory system, 
government effectiveness, control of corruption, political stability and rule of 
law. 
 
The “Social” criterion measures social and societal performance, in particular in 
terms of lifestyle, social cohesion, demography and human capital. 
 
Finally, the “Environment” criterion measures performance in terms of carbon 
footprint, energy efficiency and green growth. The “social” and “environment”  
sub-factors are constructed by Groupama AM on the basis of a selection of available 
macroeconomic data. 
 
 
 
31 
 
 
 
 
Quantitative analysis in order 
to rate companies 
 
On the basis of the data from our ESG data 
providers, we establish tables of quantitative 
data as a function of the key ESG factors that we 
have determined internally from our 
qualitative analysis. So, for example, for each 
sector, we select and weight the criteria that 
we consider most relevant and material. This 
approach provides us with quantitative ratings 
over broad investment universes. 
 
The ESG ratings are available to all Groupama 
AM portfolio managers. For example, 
managers are provided with the proprietary 
rating tools “NotesESG©” and 
“AvisRecherche©”, which enable them to view 
the macroeconomic and fundamental research 
studies simultaneously, together with the E, S 
and G ratings. These tools provide input to our 
management tool SimCorp Dimension. 
 
 
32  
 
 
 
 
1  Groupama Asset Management, 
a committed driver of sustainable finance 
 
2  Sustainable finance, engine of the future 
 
3  An ESG approach 
between research and innovation 
 
4  A proprietary expert ESG methodology 
 
5  Identifying and managing our environmental risks 
 
6  A range of solutions 
for sustainable investment 
 
7  Voting and shareholder engagement policy 
 
8  Informing our customers 
 
9  Engaged alongside its employees for the 
environment and for corporate social 
responsibility 
 
 
33  
 
Identifying and managing our 
environmental risks 
The TCFD1 defines three climate risks 
 
 
Transition risks: risks resulting from the effects of establishing a low-
carbon economic model.. 
 
Physical risks: risks resulting from damage directly caused by 
meteorological and climatic phenomena. 
 
Regulatory and legal risks: 
- first, those related to a change in policies, for example 
establishment of carbon pricing or stricter product regulations, 
- second, the risks related to an increase in complaints and disputes 
with increasing loss and damage due to climate change. 
 
Groupama AM utilizes its environmental analysis to limit its exposure to the main 
climate risk that we face as portfolio management company, namely transition 
risk.  
 
In November 2019, we decided to implement a policy of excluding the coal sector 
and reducing the exposure of our investments to climate risks. 
 
 
 
  
 
We believe that it is essential not only to consider climate factors but also to 
 
evaluate the global environmental performance of each studied company, because 
 
the climatic and environmental factors are closely linked. For this purpose, we use 
 
a variety of indicators provided by I-Care&Consult. 
 
 
 
 
1 TCFD: Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosure) : working group set up in 2015 by the 
Financial Stability Board of the G20. The TCFD encourages companies to provide harmonized 
information concerning climate-related financial risks. 
 
 
34  
 
 
Our indicators 
 
Carbon data 
Climate performance and ability to limit adverse effects 
 
Carbon IntensityG  “Scenario 2°C” G Indicators 
 
Inclusion of ScopeG 1, 2 and 3   incorporation of data on the 
emissions (upstream),  carbon emissions of the 
standardized per million euros  company, 
of turnover  to obtain a more forward-
looking vision of the effects 
of the activities of companies 
on the climate 
 
 
Indicators 
Analysis of the current positioning of the company’s business model 
 
G  G
Green share NEC  
   
Percentage of the company’s  Measure of the alignment 
turnover generated by a  of a company’s economic 
technology/activity considered  model with the energy 
to be favourable  and  ecological 
to the energy and  transition. 
ecological transition.   
  Consistent with the EU 
Based on the EU Taxonomy  Taxonomy 
 
 
Complete analysis of 
environmental/climate risks 
 
 
 
Environmental impact of our investments 
 
We have measured the environmental impact of all our assets under management 
in 2020 by calculating the performance of the four environmental indicators for 
three asset classes: Corporate bonds, sovereign bonds and equity.
 
 
35  
 
Investments in corporate bonds 
 
 
Investments in corporate bonds 
 
 
With regard to our investments in corporate bonds and equity, our performance is 
globally better than that of the index for the majority of indicators, with, in 
particular, a Carbon IntensityG significantly lower than that of the index (-24% for 
the Equity pocket and -19% for the Corporate Bonds pocket). 
 
This negative performance difference is mainly due to the sectoral allocation  
compared to the index, since our allocation is more oriented towards sectors  
such as health, which are not covered by the EU Taxonomy.                      
The NECG is positive, and the investments are better positioned than the   
indexes for equity and corporate bonds. This indicator provides us with an 
exhaustive view of the environmental impact of our investments, because it 
includes all the environmental factors (climate, biodiversity, waste management 
etc.) 
 
On the question of alignment with the Paris AgreementG, our investments are globally      
in line with the performance of the index but not yet with a 2°C scenarioG.      
 
 
36  
 
For the year 2020, the analysis of alignment with a 2°C scenarioG is focused on 
the high-stakes sectors - electricity, automotive, oil and gas, passenger transport 
(airline, rail  and coach companies), goods transport, cement, steel, aluminium 
and agri-food - which explains the low coverage.. 
 
Sovereign debt 
 
 
Our performance in Carbon IntensityG is due to the preponderance of investment 
in French and Italian debt. These investments represent 75% of assets under 
management in this asset class. The Carbon Intensities/GDP of these two countries 
are among the 16% of countries with the lowest carbon intensity. 
 
The green shareG of the portfolio is mainly due to the preponderance of French 
bonds, which represent 49% of our assets under management, with France having 
a green shareG of 47%. The alignment of the portfolio is estimated at 2.3°C for 
sovereign debt. Again, the weight of French bonds has contributed positively to 
this performance, since the estimated temperature of the French government is 
in alignment with the Paris AgreementG(1.9°C). 
 
 
37  
 
Focus on EU Taxonomy 
In March 2018, the European Union defined an action plan on financing 
sustainable growth in order to attain three objectives: 
 
Reorienting capital flows towards a more sustainable economy, 
Mainstreaming sustainability into risk management,  
Fostering transparency and long-termism. 
 
This action plan led to the adoption of three regulations in December 2019: the 
Taxonomy Regulation, the Benchmarks Regulation and the Sustainable Finance 
Disclosure Regulation (SFDR)G. 
 
The Taxonomy Regulation aims to establish a classification system designed to help 
investors and companies to direct capital towards economic activities that 
respect the environment. An economic activity will be considered 
environmentally sustainable under the Taxonomy Regulation if it: 
 
     
Contributes substantially to one of  Adheres to the principle  Is carried out in 
the 6 Environmental objectives:  of Do No Significant Harm  compliance with the 
  (DNSH)  minimum safeguards  
Climate change mitigation     
Climate change adaptation  i.e. the activity must not  OECD Guidelines 
The sustainable use and  cause any significant harm  UN Guiding Principles 
protection of water and  to any of the other  on Business and Human 
marine resources  environmental objectives.  Rights 
The transition to a circular 
economy 
Pollution prevention and 
control 
The protection and restoration 
of biodiversity and ecosystems 
 
To-date, the European Union has only published the Technical Screening Criteria 
(TSCs) for the first two of the above 6 Taxonomy objectives. At Groupama AM, 
we are hoping that the Technical Screening Criteria for the other four objectives 
will be published before the end of the year, so that our green shareG will 
exhaustively reflect our green investment as from 2022. 
 
 
38  
 
Methodology for Green BondsG
 
“Green Bonds” are used to finance projects that have environmental benefits. 
They can be issued by companies, banks, supranational entities, development 
banks, agencies, regions and national governments. 
 
We systematically analyse invested green bonds through the lens of adherence to  
4 pillars: 
 
   
Characteristics of the Issue 
Alignment of the framework of the issue    
with the transparency requirements laid  
 
down in the Green BondsGPrinciples.  Characteristics of the issuer 
Ability of the issuer to trace the funds 
Analysis of the ESG performance of 
raised by the green bond, pending 
the issuer of the green bond, using our 
their effective investment in the 
proprietary ESG methodology (strategy, 
designated projects  
objectives, CSR policy and analysis of 
Establishment of a rigorous 
controversies). 
selection and evaluation process of the 
 
projects to be financed  4 
 
 
Transparency 
 
pillars 
Environmental quality  Existence and publication of a  
  “second opinion”, i.e. an opinion 
In particular, the projects 
published by a rating agency prior 
must relate to alternative energy  
to the issue. Commitment by the 
sources, green buildings, energy 
issuer to publish regular reports, 
efficiency, the circular economy, 
specifying as a minimum the 
sustainable transport, agriculture,      allocation of funds per types of 
forestry or adaptation 
designated projects, together with 
We verify that the projects 
proofs of impact of these projects. 
financed by green bonds strictly 
The  commitment  to  conduct  an 
comply with the nomenclature 
annual asset allocation audit is also 
defined in the certification criteria 
verified. 
for the Greenfin Label 
 
 
This analysis is rigorous: out of a total of 277 issues analysed by the end of 2020, 20.2% 
were not validated by our Research department. 
 
Groupama AM is playing its part in the development of the Green Bonds market. 
At the end of 2020, 1 539 million euros of our assets under management were 
invested in Greens Bonds, financing projects with high environmental added value. 
 
 
 
39 
 
 
A window on 
2021 
 
In view of the major challenge represented by 
biodiversity, Groupama AM has launched 
several internal studies on this theme and 
takes part in various study groups on the 
market. Today, biodiversity is incorporated 
into our environmental analysis via the  
“External Factors and Resources 
Management” pillar and via the NECG 
indicator, which includes the Biodiversity 
factor in assessing the overall environmental 
performance of a company. 
 
 
40   
 
 
 
 
1  Groupama Asset Management, 
a committed driver of sustainable finance 
 
2  Sustainable finance, engine of the future 
 
3  An ESG approach 
between research and innovation 
 
4  A proprietary expert ESG methodology 
 
5  Identifying and managing our environmental risks 
 
6  A range of solutions 
for sustainable investment 
 
7  Voting and shareholder engagement policy 
 
8  Informing our customers 
 
9  Engaged alongside its employees for the 
environment and for corporate social 
responsibility 
 
 
41  
 
A range of solutions 
for sustainable investment 
 
 
 
 
Assets under management incorporating ESG 
(in million euros) 
 
 
 
42 
 
 
 
Complementary SRIG, thematic and impact 
approaches 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A window on 
2021 
 
 
We have accelerated our certification and labelling programme in 2021, with the aim 
of obtaining sustainable finance labels for about 15 of our funds. Already, in June, 
six additional funds have obtained the French “ISR” Label for socially responsible 
investment. By the end of the year, we will be able to propose one flagship SRI fund 
for each management team and asset class. The thinking behind our product range 
is motivated by the aim that has driven Groupama AM for two decades - to position 
responsible investment in line with our vision of long-term investment and with the 
generalized integration of SRI-ESG criteria. 
 
 
43  
 
 
Incorporation of ESG in the mandates managed on behalf of 
the Groupama Group 
The specific nature of Asset and Liability Management (ALM) is that it is a long-     
term management approach that aims to optimize the balance between asset      
and liability flows by investing in bonds with specific maturities and aiming to 
keep them until their maturity.. Risk management, in particular the management 
of ESG risks, is therefore essential to this type of “buy and hold” management 
approach, and these criteria are taken into account in many ways: 
 
Specific consideration of sustainability risksG 
Exclusion of any new investment in issuers included on the List of Major 
ESG Risks, 
 
Analysis of climate risk per security, with the aim of identifying the  
issuers that are well-positioned to meet the challenges posed by  
the effects of climate change and the issuers most exposed to these risks.  
On the basis of this analysis, which is carried out on 7 sectors  
considered to be the most carbon-intensive,   
we classify the invested issuers into three categories - reinforcement,   
mitigation and disengagement.   
By integrating these environmental considerations into our ALM   
approach, we are able to establish a portfolio that meets the      
challenges of the environmental transition.   
 
Consideration of the ESG analyses conducted during the studies of 
 
individual securities and countries 
 
 
Establishment of an ESG Committee that meets quarterly with the Operations      
and Investments Department.   
   
Establishment of systematic ESG reporting adapted to the specific      
characteristics of insurance management 
 
 
44  
 
 
 
 
1  Groupama Asset Management, 
a committed driver of sustainable finance 
 
2  Sustainable finance, engine of the future 
 
3  An ESG approach 
between research and innovation 
 
4  A proprietary expert ESG methodology 
 
5  Identifying and managing our environmental risks 
 
6  A range of solutions 
for sustainable investment 
 
7  Voting and shareholder engagement policy 
 
8  Informing our customers 
 
9  Engaged alongside its employees for the 
environment and for corporate social 
responsibility 
   
 
 
45  
   
Voting and shareholder engagement policy   
   
 
   
 
 
 
The principle of shareholder engagement at Groupama AM     
   
For Groupama AM, shareholder engagement reflects an ethic of fully assuming   
our fiduciary duty as holder of long-term assets and our decision to reinforce   
dialogue with companies on ESG issues. Shareholder engagement is both a   
source of value creation and a means of risk reduction.      
   
Groupama AM is continuously reinforcing its shareholder engagement strategy via   
three main levers:       
   
Exclusion  ESG  Dialogue     
Incorporation     
 
Individual engagement      
Major ESG risks  Financial analysis     
       
  Voting policy   
Controversial activities  Indveecsistmioenns t     
Collaborative   
engagement      
 
 
 
 
Shareholder engagement at the service of three combined     
goals 
The shareholder engagement approach of Groupama AM is rooted in a policy of      
dialogue and voting that focuses rigorously on the ESG issues corresponding to      
the following main goals: 
 
 
46  
 
 
   
Environmental and energy 
Sustainability risksG    transition 
 
3 
 
           priority aims 
 
 
 
Pay gaps 
 
 
 
 
Regular shareholder dialogue in 2020 
 
 
77  88
 
companies  meetings 
 
 
4
  C   o  m    panies met upstream of the AGM 
ALTEN 
EDENRED 
UBISOFT 
TELEPERFORMANCE 
 
Dialogue on the themes targeted in 2020. The dialogue initiated in previous 
years with the targeted companies was continued in 2020 in the context of the 
health crisis 
 
The repercussions of the crisis have resulted in a reinforced engagement of the 
companies and even the accelerated transformations of their business models. 
   
 
 
47    
 
 
Human Capital: put to the test of the crisis 
 
 
 
KORIAN  TELEPERFORMANCE 
 
Themes: Human Capital: employee- Themes: Duty of vigilance, employee health and 
 
management dialogue, internal climate,  safety, corporate governance 
training, health 
 
Start of  Start of 
engagement:  12 / 2019  engagement:  01 / 2016   
 
Methods:  Methods: 
Telephone conversations  Meetings with management and   
with RI and the CSR team.  teleconferences 
     
Analysis letters, confirmation of progress  Participation in collective meetings with  
and requests for improvement   stakeholders on controversies relating to the duty   
on the subjects of engagement  of vigilance 
     
Progress observed:  Progress observed: 
 
Harmonization and consolidation  Improvement in standards of governance and 
of the social + transparency indicators  transparency 
 
 
Establishment of a CSR policy 
 
   
Energy transition: one of the key priorities of our engagement strategy     
 
RWE  SIEMENS AG AND SIEMENS ENERGY 
Theme:  Coal exit  Theme: Energy transition 
Setnagratg oefm  ent:  07 / 2020  Setnagratg oefm  ent:  02 / 2020 
Methods:  Methods: 
Letter proposing dialogue  Collective discussions with Siemens AG 
  in  the  framework  of  Climate  Action 
Annual discussion   100+,  of  which  we  are  signatory 
via teleconference  participants 
   
Progress observed:  Communication of the Net Zero 
Transparency on changes in share of coal  Benchmark to the company 
in the mix   
  Progress observed: 
  Transfer of the collective engagement  
Commitment on their coal sector exit  to Siemens Energy after spin-off 
strategy 
 
Establishment of individual dialogue  
with Siemens AG concerning the aims of SBT 
 
 
48 
 
 
 
Collaborative engagement during the pandemic 
 
These joint initiatives enable us to pool our resources and to speak as one to the 
companies concerned. The clarity of the message to management is 
strengthened, and the dialogue is more effective and constructive if a group of 
investors shares the same analysis of ESG issues. 
 
In 2020, Groupama AM joined 4 new collaborative initiatives, in particular adding its 
voice to the calls for a sustainable economic recovery and adequate responses to the 
health crisis. 
 
 
Covid 19 and pharma sector 
  (Fr : Covid 19 et le secteur pharmaceutique) 
 
Need for biodiversity metrics  Appeal to the main pharmaceutical 
(Fr : Besoin de mesures de la biodiversité)  companies to communicate 
  transparently on their responses to the 
Request  for  issuers  to  publish  health crisis 
impact indicators for the preservation of   
biodiversity.  Coordinated by the Access to Medicine 
  foundation, with which we are already 
Coordinated by Mirova via the PRI platform  engaged 
   
   
EU Alliance for a green recovery  Open letter to European Leaders 
(Fr : Alliance Européenne pour une relance verte)  for a sustainable recovery 
  (Fr : Lettre ouverte aux dirigeants 
Call by Euro MP Pascal Canfin,  européens pour une relance durable) 
chairman of the Environment Committee, for   
an EU-wide coalition for a recovery based on  Appeal of European investors addressed 
the energy transition  to their respective governments to 
  ensure a sustainable post-Covid-19 
Appeal signed by Mirela Agache on behalf of  recovery in compliance with the Paris 
Groupama AM, together with 270 members of  G
the European parliament, CEOs and trade  Agreement . 
unions   
Coordinated by PRI, CDP *and IIGCC* in 
the run-up to the European Council 
meeting of 18-19 June 2020 
   
 
 
49     
 
The 2020 voting policy has been adapted to the particular conditions of the     
health crisis   
   
The guiding principles of the voting policy are founded on:   
   
1  Fair treatment of all shareholders   
 
2  Balance of power between the executive and supervisory bodies      
   
3  Transparency and fairness of manager and corporate officer   
remuneration   
   
4  Integrity of the financial and extra-financial information   
communicated by the company   
 
 
5  Sound management of company equity   
 
6  Recognition by the company of its social and environmental 
 
responsibilities to its stakeholders. 
       
 
   
In April 2020, Groupama AM adapted its voting policy to the health crisis, with 
tougher principles on the distribution of dividends and pay policy. 
 
The votes were guided by analysis of the particular situations of each company with 
regard to state subsidies and employee wage cuts. 
 
 
 
 
Voting season in 3 key figures   
333  6604  14%     
General  Resolutions voted  NO votes      
Meetings  or abstentions      
 
 
50  
 
A demanding voting policy reflected by the rates of opposition 
to resolutions 
in France: In 46 meetings out of 
54, Groupama Asset 
Management voted “NO” to at 
least one resolution, or 85.2% 
 
In Europe (excluding France): In 
124 meetings out of 155, 
Groupama Asset Management 
voted “NO” to at least one 
resolution, or 80% 
 
North America Region: In 64 
meetings out of 124, 
Groupama Asset Management 
voted “NO” to at least one 
resolution, or 51.6% 
 
As a consequence of the particular situation of the health crisis: 26% of NO votes 
were motivated by pay policies. This figure reflects the impacts of toughening 
our voting policy on this subject in 2020. 
 
 
51  
 
 
 
 
1  Groupama Asset Management, 
a committed driver of sustainable finance 
 
2  Sustainable finance, engine of the future 
 
3  An ESG approach 
between research and innovation 
 
4  A proprietary expert ESG methodology 
 
5  Identifying and managing our environmental risks 
 
6  A range of solutions 
for sustainable investment 
 
7  Voting and shareholder engagement policy 
 
8  Informing our customers 
 
9  Engaged alongside its employees for the 
environment and for corporate social 
responsibility 
 
 
52  
 
Informing our customers 
 
 
Open-end funds covered by articles 8 or 9 
Groupama AM publishes a Transparency Code for each open-end fund covered by 
the requirements of articles 8 or 9 on the page of the Groupama AM website 
dedicated to the fund in question. 
 
A monthly ESG Report is provided, showing the ESG indicators of each fund. 
This report is available on the dedicated web page of the fund concerned. 
 
Dedicated funds covered by articles 8 or 9 
In the case of dedicated funds covered by articles 8 and/or 9, the ESG methodologies 
are applied at the request of our customers. Groupama AM undertakes to provide its 
customers with full disclosure of the applied ESG methodologies. 
 
Complete and regularly updated content 
Annual PRI evaluation 
Voting policy (updated annually) Voting report 
(updated annually) 
Engagement policy and report (updated annually) Policies for the 
exclusion of controversial weapons and coal 
Regulatory documents (KIID, prospectus and rules) and the product 
specification 
Monthly report 
 
All these documents are available on our website on the page dedicated to the 
fund in question or on the “Sustainable Finance” page. 
 
 
53  
 
In 2019, Groupama AM published the Education Guide on Sustainable 
Finance 
 
In 2019, Groupama AM published the Education Guide on Sustainable Finance.  
The environment, climate change, the preservation of biodiversity, in 
combination with employment, gender equality and respect for human rights, 
are the themes that our customers now consider to be the most important. 
 
To meet these expectations, we have contributed to the publication of a guide 
to sustainable finance. The aim of this guide is to provide a better 
understanding of the challenges and to explain the specific vocabulary and 
particularities of this domain. 
 
This practical guide also supports our distribution networks in marketing our 
range of responsible investment funds by providing an essential technical aid in 
advising and selling sustainable investment solutions. 
 
 
 
EDUCATION 
GUIDE ON 
SUSTAINABLE 
FINANCE 
Investing for the future 
IInnvveessttiinngg  ffoorr  tthhee  ffuuttuurree  
 
 
54  
 
 
 
 
1  Groupama Asset Management, 
a committed driver of sustainable finance 
 
2  Sustainable finance, engine of the future 
 
3  An ESG approach 
between research and innovation 
 
4  A proprietary expert ESG methodology 
 
5  Identifying and managing our environmental risks 
 
6  A range of solutions 
for sustainable investment 
 
7  Voting and shareholder engagement policy 
 
8  Informing our customers 
 
9  Engaged alongside its employees for the 
environment and for corporate social 
responsibility 
   
   
55   
 
   
 
   
Social engagement in favour of its employees   
 
Groupama AM affirms its social engagement as employer and promotes employee   
skills development by proposing specific training programmes. The company also   
promotes the internal mobility of its employees and the mobility of employees       
from and/or to the other entities of the Group.   
   
This social engagement is particularly reflected in our Management Development   
Programme, which helps managers provide positive support to the employees        
under their authority and to develop and make optimum use of their skills. This      
approach fosters a climate of well-being in the company. 
 
Finally, to assist in the induction of new employees, a cross-departmental mentoring 
scheme has been established between employees for all persons signing an 
employment contract for more than six months. 
 
“HR Care” policy 
 
During the health crisis, the Human Resources team remained very close to all      
the company’s employees. The team contacted all 250 employees of the      
company to discuss the difficulties of the 1st lockdown with them and thereby 
contributed to maintaining cohesion within the company, despite the physical 
distancing. 
 
A Freefone number was also made available to employees, so that they could  
talk with psychologists able to listen to them and provide advice on both  
the professional and personal aspects of the crisis.        
 
Finally, an internal Newsletter was created to promote dialogue and to enable all 
employees to share their day-to-day experience of lockdown, as an effective 
means of maintaining social cohesion and preserving corporate culture during this time 
of combined health et and social crisis. 
 
 
56  
 
Regular events for well-being in the workplace 
 
In addition to this daily support, Groupama AM proposes numerous “employee 
events” on the theme of workplace well-being. 
 
Every year, one week focusing on this theme is proposed to employees. The aim is 
to provide employees with practical advice to improve their quality of life by 
dealing with topics such as workstation ergonomics, correct movements and 
postures, self-confidence, sophrology etc.) 
 
In addition, a partnership has been established with the Responsage organization, 
in coordination with employee representatives, in order to improve the daily 
experience of employee caregivers.. 
Special focus on disability 
 
Groupama AM is alert to the employability of employees with disabilities. The 
company systematically sends its job offers and training proposals to 
organizations specializing in the recruitment and training of persons with 
disabilities and pays a proportion of the French "apprenticeship tax” to 
institutions specializing in disability. 
 
Also, for several years now, the company has had a partnership with the 
AlterMassage company, which employs visually impaired persons to provide 
workplace well-being services. Several massage sessions provided by blind or 
visually impaired persons are organized every year for Groupama AM employees. 
This action combines employee well-being and the raising of employee awareness 
concerning disabilities. 
 
Groupama AM also employs the services of the AP’AIPS company, which provides 
employment and social support to persons with disabilities. This disability-
adapted company employs 200 people with disabilities, some of whom come to 
our premises to tend the plants that decorate the shared spaces and offices of 
our employees 
 
 
 
57  
 
Engagement to combat discrimination 
 
The asset management company, in alignment with the strategy of the Group, 
also promotes gender parity. 
 
Workplace gender equality index 
 
90
/100 
 
Groupama AM obtained a score of 90/100 in the workplace gender equality index for  
the year 2020. The company engages daily in combating discrimination by  
implementing a recruitment policy that promotes the diversity of employee profiles while      
maintaining its corporate culture of Groupama AM.      
 
 
58  
 
 
Societal engagement 
 
In terms of societal engagement, Groupama AM contributes to supporting causes in 
the public interest through its sponsorship and charity funding actions. 
 
This financial aid is constantly expanding and is mainly focused on aid for 
Childhood, in particular by providing support to institutions that provide care and 
education for disadvantaged/sick and/or disabled children: these organizations 
receive not only financial donations but also gifts in kind for improving the 
conditions of reception and care of the children. 
 
As one example of these sponsorship actions combining childhood and education, 
since 2018 Groupama AM has supported the “DEMOS” musical education project. 
This cultural democratization project aims to give access to musical and orchestral 
education to children coming from  
  rural and low-income communities lacking in 
  cultural institutions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Jean-Louis Autant 
  Head of CSR and Forward Planning 
 
 
  We are convinced that a sustainable future also means the 
  democratization of culture for all. 
 
 
 
Aid to Medical research is another complementary commitment of the company 
and is reflected in its support for the Groupama Foundation for rare diseases. 
 
   
   
59    
   
 
   
Environmental engagement   
   
Groupama AM is taking a number of internal actions to limit the environmental impact of its     
activities (energy, paper, water etc.). In particular, it is orienting its environmental      
strategy towards initiatives such as:      
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
Generalizing the company’s      
 
proactive contribution to waste 
 
sorting, which aims to raise 
  awareness and the sense of 
  personal responsibility of 
employees-through the   
Using only certified 
establishment of central trash-  
PEFC and EU Flower 
sorting bins      
(European Ecolabel) 
paper for all our     
company     
photocopiers.        
 
Promoting alternative “soft”     
 
modes of transport, with   
 
the establishment of a € 200 
  subsidy for the purchase of      
Limiting  our  waste  production  and  electric 2bikes and scooters 
promoting waste recycling. Groupama AM has  to encourage our employees 
two  partnerships  for  daily  action  in  this  to use more environmentally 
domain. We recycle our used ink cartridges via  friendly means of transport. 
the Cartouche Utile company and also partner 
with  Véolia,  which  recycles  our  waste 
products., We also engage in used equipment 
donation/collection schemes. 
 
Employing couriers that use  
green mobility systems.  
For this reason, Groupama  
employs the Lungta company  
for all its courier deliveries. 
   
Promoting  the   
purchase  of  locally  or   
nationally  sourced  goods  to      
reduce our carbon impact on 
society. Buying locally reduces     
transport  distances  and 
therefore,  cuts  our  indirect 
CO2 emissions. 
 
 
60   
 
The structural sponsorship partnership established in 2019 is being 
continued 
 
In 2019, with the aim of increasing its impact in the domain of aid to Childhood, which 
is the main pillar of the company’s sponsorship activity, Groupama AM signed a 
partnership with Fondation AlphaOmega ,a leading foundation for providing aid 
to education for disadvantaged populations. 
 
This Foundation supports various associations that play a key role in the field of 
education and are positioned in the supplementary education segments, such as 
truancy prevention, homework assistance via student mentoring, initiation to 
entrepreneurship etc. 
 
One specific aspect of the partnership consists in channelling the sums from 
Groupama AM donations towards reinforcing the structures of these associations 
in order to ensure their long-term survival. 
 
The financial support of the Groupama Group is substantial and is tailored to the 
long-term, with an aid of 750,000 euros planned over a period of 3.5 years. 
 
 
Apprenticeship tax 
 
In 2020, Groupama AM paid almost 24,000 euros of its apprenticeship tax to 
specialized institutes, such as, in particular, the Leopold Ballan Medical 
Educational Institute (for intellectually disadvantaged children and teenagers), 
the “Faites des Couleurs” Medico-Professional Institute (educational and 
technical workshops for teenagers with intellectual disabilities) and the Valentin 
Haü Medico-Professional Institute for the blind and visually impaired. 
   
   
61    
   
 
   
Groupama AM, engaged alongside its employees and in   
support of civil society   
 
This commitment of the company to civil society is also aimed at supporting the      
personal engagement of employees towards their own chartable initiatives or at      
federating these initiatives in support of the sponsorship and charitable actions   
established by the CSR department of Groupama AM.   
   
In particular, we can note the financial participation in a fund-raising run in -Saint-  
Denis, the financial aid provided for the operation of an orphanage in Vietnam,   
and aid for the purchase of school supplies for schools in Cameroon.      
   
In 2020, most of our planned events were cancelled due to the pandemic.   
   
This was notably the case of our charity football tournament created in 2017. This   
tournament enables the employees of Groupama AM and of the Paris-based   
entities of the Group to come together in support of our associations.    
       
In 2020, the level of donations was maintained, despite the impossibility of      
holding the tournament due to the health crisis.   
   
Also, for Easter 2020, Groupama AM organized an operation to provide support to the   
staff and patients of 3 “EHPAD” hospital facilities for senior citizens in the Paris   
region. With the aid of one of our historic NGO partners, confectionery and   
chocolates were distributed to these establishments.      
 
 
62  
 
 
LOOK-UP TABLE 
(Art 173 and SFDRG) 
 
 
 
 
General approach  p. 10 - 14 
   
Customer information method  p. 52 - 53 
   
Assets under management taking ESG criteria into  p. 41 - 42 
 
account   p. 18 
 
Adherence to charters, codes, initiatives or labels  p. 21 - 24 
 
Nature of the ESG criteria considered  p. 26 
 
Information used in analyzing the ESG criteria  p. 28 
 
Methodology and results of the ESG analysis  p. 28 - 39 
 
Integration of the results of the ESG analysis  p. 41 - 43 
in the investment policy 
 
 
63  
 
 
LOOK-UP TABLE 
(SFDRG) 
 
 
 
 
Art 3 - Policies on the integration of sustainability risks in their  p. 21 - 24 
investment decision‐making process.   
 
 
 
Art 4 - A statement on due diligence policies with respect to 
 
G p. 24 
those impacts (PAI ) 
 
   
Art 4 - Information about their policies on the identification 
p. 28 - 31 
and prioritisation of principal adverse sustainability impactsG   
 
   
Art 4 - Description of the principal adverse sustainability   
G  p. 26 
impacts  
   
Art 4 - Summary of engagement policies 
p. 45 - 50 
 
 
Art 4 - Adherence to responsible business conduct codes and 
p. 21 - 24 ; p. 33 - 39 
internationally recognised standards for due diligence and   
reporting and, where relevant, the degree of their alignment   
 
with the objectives of the Paris Agreement. 
 
 
 
Art 10 - Transparency of the promotion of environmental or 
 
social characteristics and of sustainable investments on 
p. 41 - 43 ; p. 52 - 53 
websites 
 
 
64  
 
GLOSSARY 
 
DNSH 
Acronym meaning “Do No Significant Harm”, I.e. an activity must not significantly harm any of the 6 
environmental objectives, taking into account the life cycle of the products and services provided by the 
economic activity (article 17 of the Taxonomy Regulation) 
 
ESG 
This international acronym designates the Environmental, Social and Governance criteria used by the 
financial community to analyse and assess the incorporation of sustainable development and long-term 
factors in the strategy of companies. 
 
Green Bond 
A green bond is a fixed-income instrument issued by a company, international organization or local 
government on the financial markets in order to finance a project or activity that benefits the 
environment. 
 
“Alignment with the Paris Agreement” Indicator 
The Alignment with the Paris Agreement indicator is based on the SB2A approach (” Science based 2°C 
Alignment”). This methodology consists of 4 stages that translate the difference between the actual 
trajectory of a company and its 2 °C reference trajectory into a temperature conforming to climate 
science... The SB2A approach is based on the 2°C scenario of the of the International Energy Agency and 
on the SBT (Science Based Targets) and ACT (Assessing low Carbon Transition) methodologies... The 
ACT method is jointly backed by the French Agency for Ecological Transition (ADEME (and the CDP 
(Carbon Disclosure Project) and is designed to help evaluate the climate strategies of companies and 
their alignment with sectoral decarbonization targets. 
Stage 1: Evaluation of the company’s carbon performance based on the physical carbon intensity 
in tCO2e / measurement unit (specific to each sector) and on the mix of products / services 
(taking into account the current year, historic performance and forecasts) 
 
Stage 2: Choice of the 2°C reference scenario to be used as the standard of comparison for the carbon 
performance of the company: different scenarios exist per sector and per geographical zone 
 
Stage 3: Comparison of the company’s carbon performance against its theoretical 2°C trajectory: 
The SB2A methodology calculates the cumulated amount by which carbon emissions from 
2010 to 2050 exceed or fall below the temperature trajectory that the company should 
follow in order to converge by 2050 (compared to the average for the sector)) 
 
Stage 4: Conversion into temperature (°C): the excess carbon ratio is converted into an 
equivalent global temperature rise, using algorithms based on climate science. 
 
In practice, a company with a carbon budget equal to the 2°C reference would have an 
equivalent climate change temperature of 2°C, whereas companies having carbon 
budgets below and above the reference would respectively have temperature below 
and above 2°C. 
   
 
 
 
65    
 
 
 
 
 
 
Carbon intensity 
Inclusion of scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions (upstream), standardized per million euros of turnover.     
   
“2°C Scenario” Indicator 
 
to obtain a more forward-looking vision of the direct impact of company activities on climate, we also 
 
use an indicator for the “Alignment of a company’s strategy to a 2°C scenario”, which provides us with 
information on the historic trend and anticipated future development of the company’s carbon emissions      
compared to this scenario.   
   
ISR / SRI 
SRI, or Socially Responsible Investment (French abbreviation:” ISR”) consists in the systematic and traceable     
integration of environmental, social and governance (ESG) criteria in financial management.   
It can also be defined as the “application of the principles of sustainable development to investment” 
This type of financial investment seeks to reconcile economic performance, social impact and      
environmental impact by financing companies that contribute to sustainable development.   
   
Net Environmental Contribution (NEC)  
 
Percentage environmental performance of the activity of a company on a scale from  
-100% to + 100%,, where +100% is the best performance currently achieved. This indicator is used to      
measure the alignment of a company’s business model with the ecological and energy transition at a 
given moment. The NEC supplements the green share and takes into account the overall  
environmental performance of the company by integrating the key environmental factors, such as waste 
materials, biodiversity, water, air quality and climate... This indicator is an advanced indicator that is 
consistent with the EU Taxonomy, providing a metric of the overall net impact of a company’s “green” 
and “brown” activities. 
 
The Sustainable Development Goals {SDG) 
The 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDG)s were adopted by the UN member states in September 2015 for 
implementation by 2030. Their ambition is to end all forms of poverty,  
to combat inequalities and to tackle climate change, while making sure that no-one is left behind. 
 
 
 
These 17 Goals have been further subdivided into 169 targets and 244 indicators, primarily intended for 
action by public authorities. Nevertheless, private players, both companies and investors, are     
increasingly seeking to demonstrate their contributions to these SDGs.   
   
Principal Adverse Impact or PAI   
The SFDR defines these principal adverse impacts as “adverse impacts [...] of investment decisions [...] that 
result in negative effects on sustainability factors”.     
   
Green share 
Percentage of the company’s turnover generated by a technology/activity considered to be favourable      
to the energy and ecological transition. The closer a company’s green share is to 0% the more it is 
exposed to transition risks. The method used to calculate the green share is based on the EU     
Taxonomy.   
   
PRI 
 
The Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) were launched by the United Nations in 2006. They 
represent a proactive commitment addressed to the financial sector, encouraging investors to integrate      
ESG criteria into their portfolio management. The PRI constitute one of the means of advancing towards   
the generalized integration of extra-financial considerations by all the financial professions.     
 
 
66  
 
 
SFDR 
The European Union’s Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation (SFDR), which came into effect in March 
2021, aims to ensure that  pre-contractual disclosure documents describe and explain the sustainable 
investment strategy and the way in which asset management companies incorporate sustainability 
information into their financial products (integration of adverse effects on sustainability). This 
Regulation classifies funds into 3 categories: “article 6” funds, which have no specific sustainability 
objectives, “article 8” funds, which promote ESG characteristics (for example their “carbon footprint”), 
without this necessarily being their central preoccupation, and finally “article 8” funds, which have a 
genuine sustainability objective (for example investment in a portfolio compatible with the aims of the 
Paris Agreement and limitation of climate change). 
 
Sustainability risk 
An environmental, social, or governance event, or condition that, if it occurs, could cause an actual or a 
potential material negative impact on the value of the investment arising from an adverse sustainability 
impact. 
 
CSR 
The Corporate Social Responsibility of companies is defined as their proactive integration of social, 
economic and environmental issues into their business activities and their relations with stakeholders. 
In other words, CSR is the contribution of companies to the challenges of sustainable development. 
 
SCOPE 1 (CARBON BALANCE) 
Direct emissions from fixed or mobile installations located inside the organizational perimeter 
 
SCOPE 2 (CARBON BALANCE) 
Indirect emissions associated with energy consumption 
 
SCOPE 3 (CARBON BALANCE) 
Other emissions indirectly produced by the activities of the organization and not included in scope 2, but 
that are linked to the overall value chain, such as  purchases of raw materials, services or other products, 
employee travel and transport, upstream and downstream goods transport, management of the waste 
materials generated by the activities of the organization, use and end-of-life disposal of sold products and 
the capitalization of goods and production equipment. 
 
NOTICE 
 
This document is for information purposes only. Groupama Asset 
Management and its subsidiaries are not liable for any modification, 
distortion or forgery of this document. 
Any unauthorized modification, use or distribution  
of all or part of this document, by whatsoever means, is 
prohibited. The information contained in this publication is based 
on sources that we consider to be reliable,  
but we do not guarantee its accuracy completeness, validity or 
relevance. 
This document was drawn up on the basis of information, 
projections, estimates, forecasts and hypotheses that involve a 
degree of subjective judgement. 
The analyses and conclusions express an independent opinion 
formed on the basis of publicly available information on a 
specific date and by applying a methodology specific to 
Groupama AM. In view of the subjective and indicative nature 
of these analyses,  
they cannot be construed to constitute a legally binding commitment  
or guarantee of Groupama AM or as personal financial advice. 
This non-contractual document does not, under any 
circumstances, constitute a recommendation of 
investment, request for offers, an offer to buy or sell or 
an arbitrage offer, 
and may in no case be interpreted as such 
The commercial teams of Groupama Asset Management and its 
subsidiaries are at your service if you wish a personal financial 
recommendation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
www.groupama-am.com 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Printed on FSC 100% recycled paper. 
 
Registered office: 25, rue de la Ville l’Evêque 75008 Paris - 
Tel.: +33/0 1.44.56.76.76 - Portfolio management company 
Approval No. GP93-02 dated 05/01/93 
French public limited company (Société anonyme)  
with a capital of €1,878,910  
Registered with the Paris register of trade and companies 
(RCS) No, 369 522 152 - SIRET 389 522 152 00 047 
APE 6630Z - www.groupama-
am.comPhoto credits: Shutterstock 
Investing for the future 